a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 1 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response change the guard ?
strauss-kahn 's fall prompts reader skepticism about european stewardship of the imf .
health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio poland poles protest the visit by a representative of the germans expelled from poland .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany - das wirtschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
fine wine popular french actor pierre richard gives a tour of his vineyard and a taste of his vintages .
watch the video eastern europe four years after romania joined the eu , its capital city bucharest is enjoying a renaissance .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds elizabeth george – crime writer listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air books and literature take centre stage listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art meet several artists who live in a small world and miniaturize their work .
the filmmaker the model builder the engraver the painter the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live fit & gesund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil - das automagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response change the guard ?
strauss-kahn 's fall prompts reader skepticism about european stewardship of the imf .
health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio poland poles protest the visit by a representative of the germans expelled from poland .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
fine wine popular french actor pierre richard gives a tour of his vineyard and a taste of his vintages .
watch the video eastern europe four years after romania joined the eu , its capital city bucharest is enjoying a renaissance .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' german pop ' homepage somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature scorpions on tour a legendary rock band is retiring and dw joins them on their final tour .
dw-tv culture jungle : what is good art ?
bayreuth centenary : the controversy continues globetrotting with goethe -lrb- part 5 -rrb- more about arts.21 radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth recent picture galleries bayreuth and the wagner family the color master : photos by joel sternfeld summer sunglasses car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
meet story-teller and guitarist max prosa ' german pop ' homepage twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live culture calendar october happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture calendar april happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
literature looking for a good book ?
book review : rabinowich 's ' splithead ' depicts east-west divide visit the new books in german website podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 11 - jupiter jones are moving on up subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
oxford , britain schwerin , germany las palmas , spain reykjavik , iceland darmstadt , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules . dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live cities at the heart of most european cities , there 's a plaza , piazza or platz where everything happens .
place charles de gaulle , paris plaza mayor , madrid potsdamer platz , berlin st. mark 's square , venice literature urban writing crowded , intriguing and often impovrished , the world 's megacities inspire their writers .
culture calendar september happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules . dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour leipzig 1 listen live culture calendar november happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture calendar march happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kino - das deutsche filmmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from ermany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed visit germany dw-tv tells you the top things to visit in this fun rhineland city .
" recommended " as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- cologne cologne carnival the claudius therme ' suenner im walfisch ' brewery -lrb- german -rrb- word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
lamb with vegetable casserole sole meunière tortelloni with artichoke filling sea bass in a salt crust swabian spätzle veal schnitzel from switzerland seafood from scotland recent picture galleries car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast series traveling on a budget ?
dw presents shoestring guides to european cities .
get all the episodes subscribe on itunes get the rss feed podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
german pop - max prosa ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
dw-tv meet exceptional women who have achieved success in male-dominated jobs .
dj smokin joe car designer juliane blasi architect zeynep fadillioglu chef annie féolde conductor inma shara podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the audio nuclear energy what is evil ?
renowned british intellectual terry eagleton looks it squarely in the face .
watch the video europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
food try these recipes for a taste of europe .
hearty irish stew knödel dumplings with meat filling ribolitta from florence berlin-style pork with potatoes fish from lake traunsee in austria cologne fish with gourmet twist sweet-savory pheasant from leeds escudella vegetable and meat soup podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
oxford , britain schwerin , germany las palmas , spain reykjavik , iceland darmstadt , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown - special edition : champions dortmund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet saving reefs and battling dams listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour beethovenfest 2010 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio bundesliga near the end dw sports pundits have just two weeks left to hit the jackpot with their picks .
here goes nothing .
rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
bern , switzerland freiburg , germany jerez de la frontera , spain oxford , britain bordeaux , france dw-tv : euromaxx cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
swedish crispbread saddle of rabbit with asparagus risotto rutabaga soup dumplings with meat filling sweet-savory pheasant from leeds dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the 54th biennale contemporary art festival in venice spotlights artists from 88 countries .
watch the video turkey turkey 's opposition has undergone a makeover and is touting new rights for minority kurds .
listen to the audio nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
dw-tv meet exceptional women who have achieved success in male-dominated jobs .
dj smokin joe car designer juliane blasi architect zeynep fadillioglu chef annie féolde conductor inma shara podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
dw partner site our reporter takes an odyssey across berlin - on cross country skis .
watch the report podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski subscribe on itunes get the rss feed visit germany dw-tv tells you the top things to visit in this fun rhineland city .
" recommended " as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- cologne cologne carnival the claudius therme ' suenner im walfisch ' brewery -lrb- german -rrb- word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the czech state rushes artwork out of a german museum in light of a potential legal issue .
watch the video poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga - the international talk show we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany - the business magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hope for women in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 hope for women in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan girls have a right to education .
delegates at the loya jirga or grand assembly are holding talks on a draft constitution for afghanistan .
the blueprint is finally meant to place women on an equal footing in afghan society . hardly any other topic has captured the world ’ s attention as much as the fate of oppressed women under the taliban regime in afghanistan .
the taliban forbade women from working , barred access to education for girls , forced women to appear in public only with the all-enveloping burqa and in the company of a male escort .
it ’ s been a disenfranchised life within the four walls of their home for afghanistan ’ s women .
crippling poverty gul anar is an ordinary woman from rural afghanistan .
her fate has nothing to do with the inhuman bans of the taliban regime , but rather with tradition and belief .
gul anar lives in a small village of mud huts in the craggy mountains of northern afghanistan .
she ’ s in her late 20s and her husband is over 50 years old .
they ’ ve been married as long as gul anar can think .
she was ten when her older brother sold her .
" i was very sad when i had to get married .
i ’ m not happy with my life , " she said .
" what kind of a life is it ?
nobody asked what i thought .
my brother sold me because the family was poor , " she said .
" i ’ m also poor .
my husband is old and weak .
we don ’ t have enough to eat .
we don ’ t have warm things for the winter . "
gul anar ’ s face reflects blank fear .
she ’ s scared of losing her next child .
out of the seven she ’ s given birth to , only three are still alive .
" i wanted to take my children to the doctor .
but my husband didn ’ t give me any money , " she said .
gul anar has never gone to school .
like almost 90 percent of all women in rural afghanistan , she can ’ t read or write .
she doesn ’ t know what a constitution is , but she ’ s clear about what she wants .
" i want to go to school .
and then i want to work .
in a factory , in the fields , wherever , " she said .
" i want to have the right to earn my own money . "
implementing the law is a problem the draft drawn up by afghanistan ’ s constitutional commission has taken her wish into account .
according to the basic rights catalogue , every afghan should have the right to education and the right to work .
all citizens of the country are meant to have equal rights .
afghan minister for womens ’ affairs , habiba sorabi said that if the loya jirga or grand assembly agrees to their vision , it would mark an important step towards the future .
but it will be difficult to implement a working paper and translate it into a new reality for the whole country .
the villages in the provinces are still controlled by warlords , religious mullahs and tribe chieftains , who have the last say on all matters .
" the implementation of the constitution is my biggest worry .
we have to educate and train our judges and police .
they have to ensure that the laws are upheld , " sorabi stressed .
" and of course we have to educate the women .
the women have to learn about their rights and duties so that they can defend themselves in everyday life without crossing the borders of holy islam . "
afghan women ’ s rights activist homa sabri said she wished the constitution had set a precedent in referring clearly to men and women rather than speaking generally about afghan citizens , a move that the united nations worker believes would protect women even further .
improving the lives of afghan women is a task of several decades , she said and can only be achieved when women and men are exposed to other lifestyle patterns through education .
a quarter of a century of war has worn them down and tired them , she said .
essentials for afghanistan ’ s future whether and how quickly afghanistan ’ s women get to feel the tangible effects of the new constitution in their daily lives finally depends on three things : how far the interim government of hamid karzai will be able to wield their influence in the future , how firmly all non-elected power-holders will be disarmed and how strongly the west will continue to stay involved in afghanistan in the long run . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : uk prisoners to get the vote postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour a musical rarity : " scenes from goethe 's ' faust " ' by robert schumann listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live germany today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the 54th biennale contemporary art festival in venice spotlights artists from 88 countries .
watch the video turkey turkey 's opposition has undergone a makeover and is touting new rights for minority kurds .
listen to the audio nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 germany presses for eu constitution by end of 2004 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schröder is all in favor of the eu constitution , but not at all costs .
german chancellor schröder has stressed that the need for a decision on an eu constitution by the end of this year .
in a statement published saturday , he said his country will not offer concessions on voting rights . following last month ’ s failed attempt to approve an eu constitution , european leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other and passing the blame for the row over voting right .
spain and poland have aligned themselves against germany and france in opposing a proposal to replace the current complex voting system with one that allows for a simple majority of 13 nations -lrb- from 25 -rrb- as long as they represent 60 percent of the eu ’ s 450 million population .
berlin and paris are clearly in favor of the reformed procedure put forth in the constitution and have criticized the blocking by the other two .
" we have put on the table what we believe is right , " schröder was quoted in the newsmagazine der spiegel .
" we must see by the end of 2004 at the latest whether we can reach a decision on this basis . "
" of course we will have to see where we can give ground to one or another -lrb- country -rrb- , " he added , " but concessions on the weighting of votes are out of the question . "
spain and poland refused to endorse the new voting system claiming it would put too much power in the hands of more populous germany , france , britain and italy , which already dominate the eu on the sheer basis on their strong economies .
the two smaller members want to retain a system adopted in the nice treaty of 2000 that gave them each 27 votes against 29 for france and germany .
in response to the derailed summit in brussels , french president jacques chirac suggested that a " pioneer group " of nations could move forward alone with closer cooperation on areas such as the economy , justice and defense .
the idea of a " two-speed europe , " however , has drawn a harsh response from many other members .
schröder , who in the past year has moved his country on a path close to paris , said he does not necessarily embrace the notion of a core europe with other members on the sideline .
" i do n't want this , " he told der spiegel , " but i must prepare myself for the fact that developments could go in this direction . "
taking over the eu 's rotating six-month presidency on thursday , irish prime minister bertie ahern forecast that the bickering members would eventually agree on a constitution .
but he conceded it would be " quite a long task " that could stretch beyond 2004 . dw staff -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de ireland takes helm of eu on jan .
1 , ireland takes over the european union ’ s most-important office for six months .
but unlike its italian predecessor , dublin is steering clear of great expectations .
-lrb- jan .
1 , 2004 -rrb- the eu question : integrate or separate ?
the failure of the eu constitution summit in brussels has led to a new set of buzzwords which have little to do with “ one europe ” and more to do with “ two-speed ” reforms led by like-minded “ pioneer groups . ”
-lrb- dec .
15 , 2003 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from ermany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
italy italy 's prime minister has again expressed his disapproval of nato 's mission in libya .
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio russia russia 's defense minister comes under fire from the top over gaps in the country 's armaments .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
bern , switzerland freiburg , germany jerez de la frontera , spain oxford , britain bordeaux , france podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
oxford , britain schwerin , germany las palmas , spain reykjavik , iceland darmstadt , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
lille : breaking out of the grey zone -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : cities of culture the pope 's chosen hometown lübeck : a walk back in time potsdam : beyond berlin 's shadow kassel : at the heart of germany culture & lifestyle -pipe- 03.01.2004 lille : breaking out of the grey zone großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands gathered to usher in lille 's year as culture capital of europe .
the former industrial city in the north of france was named a european cultural capital for 2004 .
hundreds of cultural events are planned to attract visitors to the often overlooked city . the city of lille has made a big investment : facades , entire rows of houses , streets and public squares have been renovated .
three four-star hotels have been built .
the city that was never bombed , but was long forgotten , is dressed in its sunday best . lille , long known as an industrial center , just became the european capital of culture for 2004 , a distinction it will share with the italian city of genoa .
and it 's grey dot on the map just got brighter as tourists head to it in the search for something authentic , such as the wonderfully restored 17th century residential street , rang du beauregard . idea for cultural capitals began nearly 20 years ago the idea behind the distinction stems from a 1985 proposal by the greek cultural minister , melina mercouri , who saw it as a way to open up various aspects of european culture to the public at large .
each year , a different capital -lrb- or sometimes more than one -rrb- takes center stage and offers year-round cultural programming to show off its native talents to a european audience . lille is the capital of the region nord-pas de calais and has a population of 215,000 .
it is france 's fourth-largest metropolitan area , and 100 million europeans - from great britain , belgium , luxembourg , the netherlands , germany and , of course , france - live within a 300 kilometer radius of the city . historically , lille was the center of the coal and textile industry in northern france - a sad , drab working-class city .
when the coal plants and then the textile firms began closing in lille , roubaix and tourcoing , a painful transition from manufacturing to service began . capitalism and socialism clashed in lille capitalism and worker-supported socialism clashed bitterly in lille .
in the saint sauveur neighborhood , pierre degeyter wrote the melody to eugene pottiers ' poem " l ' internationale " in 1888 .
but visitors wo n't find mention of the industrial past in the neighborhood .
there an abandoned building has been turned into a student dorm without so much as a dedication plaque . " the people of the north keep the sun in their hearts because they do n't have it outside , " goes a french pop song .
so even in the wind and bad weather , locals may be found sitting on the terraces .
statistically seen , lille is quite young : 28 percent of the population is younger than 25 .
this stems partly from the fact that there are more than 100,000 students living in lille . lille 's musee des beaux-arts is the second largest museum in france after the louvre .
with some 3,000 drawings and paintings by flemish , dutch , italian , french and spanish masters the museum is definitely worth a visit .
but not even the likes of goya , rubens , van dyck , delacroix , monet , renoir , toulouse-lautrec , donatello and david - to name a few - could change the grey image of the city . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : view of the northern facade of the grande place evolution of a city the changes started 10 or 15 years ago .
first came the high-speed train , then the failed attempt at hosting the olympics and then the application to become a cultural capital of europe .
perhaps it helped that the french prime minister at the time , pierre mauroy , had once been the mayor of lille . in any case , the city has received many millions of euros in support .
and today , buildings whose 17th and 18th century charm had been covered with " modern " facades are once again architectural attractions . lille is the third french culture capital , after avignon and paris . one of its most beautiful architectural treasures is the so-called old exchange , built in 1652 in the flemish renaissance style and comprised of 24 two-story buildings .
book vendors and chess players are among those drawn to the exchange .
and on warm summer nights , it 's a popular spot for tango dancers . indeed , lille is no longer a city where one goes only for business .
today , it is a place to relax and unwind . gerd schmitz send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de coming out of the shadows graz has long been known for its theater , literature and contemporary art .
now austria ’ s second-largest city is this year ’ s european capital of culture .
-lrb- feb .
1 , 2003 -rrb- www-links lille 2004 official site for the french cultural capital .
it lists events and happenings throughout the year .
genoa 2004 official site of the italian cultural capital , with information for visitors and event schedules .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
caught between theory and practice -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 caught between theory and practice großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most women in afghanistan are still wearing burqas , but some are speaking out for equal rights .
dw reporter sandra petersmann discusses the constitutional debate with a group of young womens ’ rights activists in kunduz .
after years of oppression they now want a stronger say in decision-making . fatima mohammadi is sick of hearing people tell her what she should and shouldn ’ t do because she ’ s a woman .
she ’ s 19-years-old , she ’ s in the 11th grade and she wants to study at kabul ’ s college for law and political science .
she ’ s got the support of her parents , but that ’ s not enough for her to get the same kind of treatment that a young man in her same position would get .
" i ’ m convinced that we have to organize in order to win recognition of our rights , " mohammadi says .
a few weeks back , she formed an association for young women and girls .
" we have to instill in society what our rights actually are , that our rights are human rights , " she says .
daily life for young women mohammadi is a diminutive young woman , with a dimple and long black hair .
she laughs and leans back and relaxes for what is going to be her first-ever radio interview .
she breaths deeply and then she clenches her fist .
" the biggest problem we have is that we still don ’ t have safety .
and that we still can ’ t move about freely , " she explains .
we really want to get involved in society , but there are still men everywhere who control us and put us in our place . "
the activists then tell the story of a girl from their neighborhood who recently disappeared without a trace .
her parents haven ’ t offered any explanation .
is it possible they sold their daughter into marriage ?
they ’ ve just been silent .
it ’ s been a month since the girl went missing , but mohammadi doesn ’ t want to let up .
" for me , this is about human rights , " she says .
" it ’ s about the right to integrity , about the right of political participation and the right of freedom of expression .
those are essential rights for all people . "
at least in theory .
" as long as women don ’ t have these rights , a girl can just disappear without ever turning up again without anyone caring . "
codifying human rights mohammadi says she has great hopes for the new constitution being debated by the loya jirga , the country ’ s traditional grand assembly .
she says she wants a strong president who is directly elected by afghans .
" i took part in the public survey about the constitution and filled out every question , " she says .
" the most important thing for me is that this constitution does not just remain a piece of paper .
it must also be implemented . "
but she has one caveat : " i really hope that this constitution isn ’ t just valid in kabul , but also everywhere else in afghanistan .
for those of us in the provinces , it will just remain a piece of paper - especially if we don ’ t have a strong central government and if the local warlords aren ’ t disarmed . "
calling for a public discussion mohammadi pushes her white silk veil away from her forehead and crosses her legs .
beneath her high-necked coat , a pair of fine high-heeled shoes with silver ornaments peek out .
the 19-year-old secondary school student pulls a letter out of her bag that she ’ s distributing to teachers , doctors and business people in the city .
it ’ s an appeal to the elite to discuss the new constitution - whenever possible .
" most people don ’ t even know what ’ s in the draft constitution , " she explains .
" and many people have no idea what a constitution even is . "
she adds , " as long as we ’ re incapable of conveying the importance to people , we will continue to have a big problem in trying to rebuild our country .
that ’ s why it 's the duty of everyone who can read and write to work for the new constitution . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan winners and losers in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : urbanization : more and more refugees are coming to kabul the afghan capital 's population is exploding .
ex-refugees and rural residents are flocking to the city by the thousands , and that 's creating major problems for kabul and the aid organizations rebuilding it . it ’ s winter in kabul .
when the sun is shining , the city is manageably warm ; but at night kabul gets bitterly cold and the frost disappears only slowly the next day .
warmth here is a luxury , especially for the city ’ s poor .
tent and container settlements dot the edge of the city , and in the totally bombed out hasara quarter in western kabul , people live amongst the ruins .
for many , a tarp will have to suffice for an emergency shelter .
and many children have to make due with sock-less sandles - warmer clothing is something you just do n't mention .
kabul has become a magnet .
the masses are coming to the city in the hope of finding work and a better life .
the city has undergone immense changes in recent years .
" there are many more people here and far too many cars , " says maki shinohara , a spokeswoman for the united nations high commission for refugees -lrb- unhcr -rrb- .
" the traffic is a nightmare , there ’ s building going on everywhere , be it legal or illegal .
but that ’ s a kabul phenomenon that hasn ’ t been the case for the rest of the country . "
the limits of how many new residents the city can absorb have been far exceeded , but the run on the city continues , almost unabated .
millions returning since the end of the war in afghanistan close to two years ago , more than 2.5 million refugees have returned to the country , many from neighboring pakistan and iran .
unhcr is responsible for their resettlement , but the organization has been overwhelmed by the mass numbers of refugees who have returned .
the incoming tide has only slowly begun to ease .
the organization ’ s goal is to scale back its activities in the country as quickly as possible .
this year , unhcr wants to reduce the number of staff it has on the ground in afghanistan by 40 percent , says shinohara .
unhcr says that its work in afghanistan is eating up a huge portion of its budget - often to the detriment of other unhcr programs .
other continents , like africa , have suffered as a result .
the organization 's plan is to register refugees who want to return to afghanistan .
with their registration papers , the people can return to their original home villages , where they are expected to rebuild their livelihoods .
during the past year , unhcr has provided refugees with enough construction material to build close to 100,000 homes .
the agency has also provided each refugee two months of food .
after that , unhcr expects refugees to take up their own initiative .
a daunting situation however , for refugees returning to kabul , the situation has been more complicated .
in the city , unhcr has sought to limit its role .
" we want to limit our work to the rural regions , " explains unhcr ’ s shinohara , " in order to prevent a massive number of people from coming to kabul .
the urbanization is already happening fast enough . "
people returning to kabul have a difficult time because they have to compete with all the others who are coming to the capital in pursuit of better prospects .
some are returning only to find that their homes have been destroyed , and reconstruction is expensive .
unhcr is trying to do more to help these families out , especially during the harsher winter months .
but prospects are much worse for families who never had their own homes in kabul .
they have no prospect of obtaining their own property or any help from the unhcr .
in these cases , says shinohara , they can turn only to their families .
the transition from rapid relief aid to building kabul up again and creating sustainable development remains the greatest challenge .
unhcr has also tried to learn from mistakes it has made in other similar projects and started early working together with development and reconstruction organizations that are engaged in long-term projects .
but the members of the constantly growing class of urban poor in kabul have a more immediate priority : surviving the hard winter .
and the residents of the tent cities and destroyed neighborhoods do n't care about where their help comes from - they just want it soon . karen fischer -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bundeswehr soldier on patrol in kunduz two-hundred fifty soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr are stationed in the dusty brick city of kunduz .
but the purpose of the troops ’ presence there is the subject of considerable debate . major michael erben is one of the most important soldiers in the german contingent in kunduz .
the 37-year-old father is the coordinator between the german army , the bundeswehr , and all of the civilian workers who either are or want to be working on the german regional reconstruction team in afghanistan .
" that can be difficult for us , of course , because the purpose of our mission is to provide secure surroundings for civilian organizations , " he told deutsche welle .
" but in my opinion , our first priority is to help create better living conditions for the people " of afghanistan .
the bundeswehr ’ s expanded mandate now includes , in addition to kabul , the four northeastern provinces - kunduz , baghlan , takhar and badakhshan - a relatively peaceful area that has suffered from considerable war damage .
" if we are successful in creating and stabilizing peace through tangible reconstruction , then that will not only be good for afghanistan and president hamid karsai , but also for us , " erben said .
he said the bundeswehr nevertheless has the ability to do something for the people - and that would also be something positive for germany .
the bundeswehr vs. warlords aid organizations that have already been in the region for some time listen to these arguments with considerable skepticism .
volker rath from the cologne-based cap anamur , an aid agency that specializes in providing medical care and construction in crisis regions , said he suspects the german government acted too hastily and sent troops into a drug stronghold area without a coherent mission .
" up here in the mountains , the local warlords manage everything among themselves " and kabul and karsai are far away , he warned . " and anyone who comes here seeking to change something without having an alternative plan for what they ’ d like to change is going to have problems . "
aid workers from german agro action have also been moving freely within northern afghanistan for more than a year now without problems .
but now workers are concerned that they ’ ll be put in greater danger because of the bundeswehr 's presence .
" german agro action has taken a clear stance : we ’ re independent , non-partisan , and we ’ re here to alleviate the population ’ s emergency , " said hanife kurt , an agro action worker .
" we believe that military should not be used to pursue political goals .
for that reason we support a strict division between military and civilian tasks . "
emergency aid but others have greeted the bundeswehr ’ s presence , entrusting it with a positive and constructive role .
almut wieland-karimi is one .
her main job is as a representative for the friedrich ebert stiftung , a foundation aligned with germany ’ s social democratic party .
but as a volunteer , she ’ s a core member of the team at the mediothek für afghanistan , a german organization that constructed a secure building where public discussions and forums can be held .
wieland-karimi says she sees the soldiers as actors at the same level as local rulers , and she believes the bundeswehr ’ s presence here will help strengthen the kabul government ’ s position .
" at the same time , we ’ re also pleased that isaf is here with its infrastructure to help us in the event of an emergency . "
for his part , major erben is hoping that the joint reconstruction work can get started as quickly as possible despite the cold winter and that the talk will finally come to an end .
the people on the streets of kunduz have little knowledge of the complicated discussion taking place between the military and aid groups , he says .
nor do they care that the bundeswehr has only been sent to quiet kunduz because they had no desire to fight with the americans in iraq .
after a quarter-century of war , the people of kunduz are yearning for peace , security and prosperity .
the want streets , drinking water , hospitals and schools .
and they don ’ t care who provides them . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read the entire dw-world special report .
german parliament approves expanded afghanistan mission the german bundestag has voted to expand the scope of germany 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan .
defense minister peter struck said german troops would n't get mixed up in the country 's war on drugs -lrb- oct .
24 , 2003 -rrb- .
aid organizations criticize germany ’ s afghanistan plans military and humanitarian aid should be separate , say german non-governmental organizations who oppose sending soldiers into the afghan provinces to protect civil reconstruction teams -lrb- aug .
19 , 2003 -rrb- .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
winners and losers in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 winners and losers in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many parts of kabul are still filled with dust and rubble .
in 2001 afghan leaders converged in bonn , germany , to consider the country ’ s future .
two years on , afghanistan appears to be on the right path .
but how have people ’ s lives changed ? kisil kucha is a village like many others in rural afghanistan .
it ’ s located in the sparse northeastern part of the country and is softly nestled in the bottom of a small valley between two steep mountainsides .
kisil kucha ’ s 200 families stick close together , almost all live from farming or from raising livestock .
the ride to the small neighboring town of hazarbargh takes about an hour by donkey .
the fate of widows gul nisar has a small piece of property and an adobe house in kisil kucha .
she ’ s 36 years old and has seven children to raise .
she lost her husband a year ago when he died in a work accident .
nisar is at the point of exasperation .
" i ’ ve already sold everything in my house at the bazaar to get some money , " she says .
" i ’ m the only one who can help me .
i ’ m scared .
i want to send my kids to school , but how am i supposed to care for them ?
there isn ’ t any help available anywhere .
where ’ s the government ?
my life is falling apart and i can ’ t take it anymore . "
nisar is far from alone .
thousands of women in afghanistan have also lost their husbands and are struggling to make ends meet .
for women , financial security is something that only exists as long as their husbands are still around .
take bibi fatima , for example .
at 80 years of age , she can barely walk and is too old to be begging on the streets of kabul .
yet that ’ s what she ’ s forced to do everyday .
she lost her husband and four sons in the war .
" i ’ m so ashamed , i ’ d rather be dead " than have to be a beggar like this , she says .
often , the toothless woman dawns her burqa and holds out her hands begging in front of kabul ’ s newest attraction , the roshan center .
rebuilding businesses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cell phones for sale in kabul the department store has five stories and a glass facade and is located in the city ’ s new business district .
" you can get anything here , from clothing and electronics to furniture , " owner haji gholam hossein roshan proudly boasts .
a woman ’ s black coat with fur trim is hanging in the shop window for $ 150 .
" we ’ ve adapted our offerings to our customers , " the salesman explains .
" we ’ ve got stuff for the less rich and we ’ ve got stuff for the wealthy .
the economy is starting and kabul has become safer .
that ’ s good for business . "
after the fall of afghan king zahir shah , roshan fled and lived for 25 years in exile in britain .
he sent all four of his sons to study in the united states .
now the family has returned .
" i have hope .
i believe in the future of my country .
i think things can improve for everyone , " he says .
returning home abdel majid is another former refugee who returned to the country a few months back .
he was on the run for 18 years , living first in iran and later in pakistan .
now he ’ s living with his wife and three daughters in a tent on the western edge of kabul along with 700 other families .
the people there have christened their wild settlement waizalabad .
but for majid , kabul is only a way station .
right now he ’ s working as a day laborer , but he ’ d like to return to his property in the small kapisa province in northern afghanistan .
" but in kapisa , the local commandants decide what happens , " he explains .
" they have many armed men .
they rob and they steal and you can ’ t build a house there . "
for now , he ’ s decided to stay in kabul .
but as soon as kapisa is safe again , he wants to return to the village .
currently , the country is preparing for its new constitution and free elections , but even those factors won ’ t be enough to determine how the next act will unfold in the lives of people like nisar , fatima , roshan and majid .
because the ability to preserve the fragile peace in afghanistan , to disarm the local warlords and to provide tangible security and prosperity outside of kabul depends , above all , on the political will of donor countries to maintain a lasting engagement in afghanistan .
and that could be a long time : after a quarter century of war , the united nations estimates the engagement won ’ t just require years , but also decades . sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de life in afghanistan read dw-world 's special report on life in postwar afghanistan .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : life in afghanistan balancing military and civilian missions in afghanistan kabul ’ s reconstruction marred by urban sprawl winners and losers in afghanistan caught between theory and practice current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 opium : the prescription for survival in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : poppy farmer mohammad agha inspects his crop in the village of essazai kili .
afghanistan is the world ’ s largest raw opium producer according to the latest un drug report .
opium cultivation is forbidden in the country , but there ’ s no denying it ’ s a lucrative business for impoverished farmers . the small enclosed field behind the mud house in the mountainous village of kwaja ghaar in north-eastern afghanistan has been freshly ploughed .
ali , the local farmer , flashes an embarrassed grin .
no , he didn ’ t plant any grain this year , he says .
it doesn ’ t fetch any money and besides the ground is too dry , he points out .
instead he planted opium poppy like almost all the farmers in the surrounding region .
" what can we do ?
if we plant wheat or maize , we don ’ t get any money for it on the market , " he says .
" even if i harvested 100 kilograms of wheat and sold it , it wouldn ’ t be enough to see my family through the winter , " ali explains .
" we ’ re forced to plant opium . "
no clue about the consequences ali managed to harvest seven kilograms of raw opium this year .
at a price of about $ 300 a kilo , he earned almost $ 2100 totally - enough to help his wife and 11 children survive the long bitter winter .
ali didn ’ t have to do anything apart from planting and harvesting the opium poppy crop .
he can ’ t read and he isn ’ t really interested in the fact that thousands of kilometers away in europe 0 .
700 grams of pure heroin worth € 70,000 has been refined from his seven kilograms of raw opium .
" i have no idea , how and where they produce the heroin .
the buyer comes to me , i give him the raw opium , he gives me my money and that ’ s it , " ali says .
naturally , ali knows it ’ s forbidden to plant opium .
but he shrugs .
he says he hasn ’ t had a problem so far , nobody ’ s really interested .
" maybe that will change once we have a new constitution and a real government , that has actual powers , " ali says .
" but i ’ ll tell you something : when you ’ re hungry , you do whatever ’ s needed to get a piece of bread . "
the 54-year-old small-time farmer from kwaja ghaar has already made up his mind : he ’ ll be planting opium again next year .
turning a blind eye to drug dealing ?
over at the northernmost tip of the regional capital of kunduz , where german peacekeeping troops moved in recently , police chief hafi sulah is responsible for monitoring goods that come into the city .
the bazaar or marketplace of the 120,000-strong city is rumored to be one of the central places for drug trafficking and dealing in raw opium in northern afghanistan .
" we take our controls very seriously , " sulah says .
" the people who smuggle opium and deal in drugs are under our scrutiny , " he explains confidently .
" we ’ ve often found things . "
but reality shows otherwise .
the police in northern kunduz only control private cars .
but the brand new jeeps with their tinted glass windows and all vehicles , that look halfway official , speed by without any of the policemen so much as raising a hand to flag them down .
the suspicion that authorities could be turning a blind eye to drug traffickers is strengthened after a visit to the central prison in kunduz .
about 100 male prisoners group together in the inner courtyard .
prison director abdel-halim samanwal leafs through the jail register : 42 murderers , 27 thieves , 14 rapists and adulterers , ten homosexuals , he says .
there ’ s just one prisoner who ’ s been arrested for drug-dealing .
a vicious cycle afganistan ’ s interior minister ali jalali repeats what is common knowledge in the country .
" the police are often part of the system , " he says .
those who are meant to battle the drug trade on behalf of the weak state are often themselves in cahoots with the offenders .
in addition , there are the powerful warlords and local commanders , who don ’ t take any orders from kabul , and often force small farmers to plant opium .
afghanistan can ’ t solve the problem alone .
as long as there isn ’ t a strong government in place , the opium poppy trade will continue to flourish .
and as long as the farmers have no alternative and the insatiable market in europe and the united states grows further , raw opium will remain their most important income source .
around 1.7 million people live from the pink buds and their sticky brown extract .
that ’ s about 7 percent of afghanistan ’ s total population . sandra petersmann -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio drugs france 's socialist party pushes to legalize cannabis as the country heads toward elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the audio nuclear energy what is evil ?
renowned british intellectual terry eagleton looks it squarely in the face .
watch the video europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
a school for lac laconth -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures from mujahedeen to farmer current affairs -pipe- 03.01.2004 a school for lac laconth großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children are the future of afghanistan .
as violence continues to shake afghanistan , the aid organization cap anamur focuses on providing education for children .
deutsche welle was present for the opening of one of its schools in the village of lac laconth . over the past several months deutsche welle has worked in cooperation with the non-profit organization cap anamur to collect donations to help fund 100 classrooms in war-torn afghanistan .
during this time deutsche welle reporter sandra petersmann traversed the countryside , speaking to the those hardest hit by the two decades of fighting - the children and their families .
recently she was present at the opening of a cap anamur school in the tiny mountain village of lac laconth in northern afghanistan .
opening the door for afghanistan 's children the children in lac laconth can ’ t wait to enter the new building .
but first they have to wait for the staff of cap anamur to arrive .
" tashakor , " they keep on shouting , " thank you , " they yell even louder , hoping the words will make the aid workers come quicker .
finally , the small staff of the german ngo arrives after a lengthy trip through potholes and quagmire .
as in most of northern afghanistan , the streets around the village of lac laconth are in extremely bad condition .
in this jagged mountain region on the border of tadshikistan everyone lives off the land and the animals .
empty gun cartridges and the rusty shells of army tanks litter the streets - silent reminders that there was a war going on even in this remote village .
that ’ s why cap anamur ’ s peter geier in his inauguration speech leaves no doubt which kind of spirit shall prevail in the new school .
" teacher , doctor , engineer - these are the professions of the future , not soldiers , " he says to the people gathered for the opening of the new school .
the village elders remain silent , their eyes cast to the ground .
they have never learned to read or write .
" guns are the weapons of ignorance , but a pen is the weapon of knowledge , " geier says in a firm voice .
and before the cologne doctor ’ s last sentence has been translated into dari , the children cry out in joyful cheers and rush into the building .
they have waited long enough for this moment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : first day at school despite their attempts to maintain order , the teachers surrender to the 1,400 boys and girls who are quick to take possession of the 14 classrooms - 8 for the boys and 6 for the girls .
for almost all the children it ’ s the first time they have ever been to school - a real school with a black board and a thick red carpet and a roof to keep out the rain and provide shade from the intense sun .
the 15-year-old sayed khaireden is excited to finally get a chance to learn .
although he has to walk more than an hour each day to reach the school in lac laconth , he says it ’ s more than worth it .
" we can only learn in the school , " he says proudly .
" if we don ’ t go to school , we ’ ll stay dumb and then we can ’ t become doctors . "
sayed ’ s school year is going to be a short one this year .
just as soon as the harsh winter weather with its minus degrees and piles of snow descends on the village , the school will have to shut down and the children will stay at home .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : but for the time being the children are concentrating on their lessons .
a group of second grade girls sing a song , praising the values of education .
" my beautiful country , " they chime , " when you were at war , we could not help you .
now we are learning for peace , beloved country .
we are learning for your future . "
education - a dream for all not all the children in this remote region of afghanistan are as lucky as the pupils attending the new school .
many are forced to stay at home and work to help feed the family .
one of these is abdul kahar .
hiding behind the jeep of the cap anamur staff , the 13-year-old boy shyly watches what is going on inside the new building .
his donkey is loaded with hay , and he holds the reins tightly - he really should be on his way home , but he is curious .
abdul can ’ t go to school like the other boys .
he has to look after his mother and his three younger sisters since his father was killed by a landmine a few months ago .
now he is the man in the house .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " sure , it would be better to go to school , " he says , " but i have to earn money .
i don ’ t know what will happen to me .
i ’ ll work as a farmer now . "
then , as an afterthought , he adds quietly , " it would be nice to open up a small shop . "
peter geier listens closely to abdul , who can ’ t write anything more than his name .
working children are part of what he sees every day just like bombed out schools , landmines and armed militia .
but geier also knows there are some 40,000 others in this northern afghan province of takhar who will be able to visit one of the 30 schools his organization has built so far .
and he hopes that number will increase soon . sandra petersmannv -lrb- ktz -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de dw-world users help afghanistan deutsche welle and the relief organization cap anamur have created the project " 100 classrooms for afghanistan " as a joint fundraising campaign .
they hope to raise a million euros for new classrooms in northern afghanistan .
www-links cap anamur - 100 classrooms for afghanistan information on how to donate to the project .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live glaubenssachen - die kirchensendung we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box in-box is no longer broadcast .
instead , you can listen to sound-scape 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
from mujahedeen to farmer -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 03.01.2004 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world users help afghanistan germany paves the way for education in afghanistan 100 classrooms for afghanistan : donations still needed afghanistan – facts and figures a school for lac laconth europe -pipe- 03.01.2004 from mujahedeen to farmer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mine clearers at work in afghanistan without disarming the country 's 100,000 guerilla fighters , there ’ s no way afghanistan can count on a peaceful future .
so far , too few have put down their weapons .
but those who have face difficult choices . in december 2001 , the political elite of afghanistan and the international community came to a single conclusion at a summit in bonn , germany : a new afghanistan could only be created if the mujahedeen guerillas were disarmed .
according to very conservative estimates , there are over 100,000 mujahedeen in the country .
two years on , the country is in the process of rebuilding itself and drafting a constitution , but there are still just as many armed mujahedeen as there were before the war .
" i don ’ t need my weapons any more " one of the few fighters who has publicly laid down his weapons is aadina mohammad , a 38-year-old father of five .
for him it 's embarrassing , especially in the presence of a female reporter , to admit that he gave up his kalashnikov .
he nervously tugs on his dark beard and pulls a thick wool blanket tighter over his narrow shoulders .
he ’ s wearing leather sandals , without socks .
it ’ s cold on this foggy winter morning and aadnia ’ s already been sitting in front of the united nations disarmament office in kunduz for two hours .
" the battle is over , the colonial powers and oppressors have left our country , " he says .
" i don ’ t need my weapons anymore .
in the beginning , the soviet union was our enemy .
but after the soviet union left , i fought against the taliban .
now , i really hope we can keep the peace . "
the first time he was pulled into war , aadina hadn ’ t yet reached the age of 15 .
for the next 23 years , all he did was fight .
in the beginning , he kept a tally of the people he killed , but later he stopped .
the only memories he ’ s allowed himself to keep are those of the holy war waged against afghanistan ’ s former soviet occupiers and the struggle against the hated taliban regime .
he has tried to blend out the four horrid years between , in which mujahedeen turned against and began to slaughter each other , transforming the capital city of kabul into a desert wasteland .
a test case the five time father is a test case – he ’ s one of 1,000 fighters in kunduz who have given up their weapons .
the office in the northeast afghani province , where soldiers from germany ’ s bundeswehr army are also stationed , is a pilot project of the united nations for the disarmament of afghanistan .
at the beginning of november , the commandants in the region began sending tired or inexperienced mujahedeen to be disarmed in the presence of interim president hamid karsai , who flew in to kunduz especially for the event .
but aadina doesn ’ t make any fuss about that .
he says he volunteered to give up his weapons and that the gesture was sincere .
" in all those years , i fought very close to my family , " he recalls .
" despite that , there were times when i didn ’ t see them for five or six months at a time .
many of the friends with whom i fought with side-by-side are dead .
many others lost a limb .
i try to see those who did survive as often as i can .
we ’ ve done enough fighting and the oppressor is away .
it ’ s time for a new beginning . "
mine clearing or farming the former rebel is thankful to still be among the living .
even today he speaks of having been given a gift from god , despite the fact that he doesn ’ t know what the future holds for him .
un workers have offered him two alternatives to his fighting past .
he can get training to become a mine clearer or he can become a farmer .
today , aadina has come to the un office in kunduz because he has made a decision .
" training and education are so important in life , " he says .
" look at me .
i ’ ve never gone to school .
i have only fought .
killed .
i ’ m uneducated .
the only thing i can do is work in the field .
i ’ d really like to be a farmer . " sandra petersmann -lrb- dsl -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic dw-world.de germany paves the way for education in afghanistan while the army takes on an extended military mandate in afghanistan , germany keeps up a quiet but comprehensive educational mission in the ravaged country .
-lrb- nov .
17 , 2003 -rrb- bundeswehr afghanistan expansion met with threats germany 's un ambassador said that " major challenges " lie ahead for afghanistan as a renegade warlord threatened german soldiers beginning peacekeeping duties in kunduz .
-lrb- nov .
12 , 2003 -rrb- feedback the process of disarming afghan guerillas is slow , so far only a handful have given up their weapons .
what can the un do to make the program more successful ?
send us your comments and include your name and country .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- inquiry into croc baby stunt home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog languages last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 06:30 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version inquiry into croc baby stunt steve irwin said he had to teach his children to be " croc-savvy " australia 's celebrity crocodile hunter is facing a state government investigation after holding his baby son near the jaws of a crocodile .
steve irwin sparked outrage across australia after cradling his one-month-old a metre away from the reptile during a show at his queensland zoo .
the queensland authorities are asking for unedited tapes of the incident to see if it breached safety regulations .
steve irwin defended his actions but admitted there would be no repeat of his controversial performance .
if i could have my time again i would probably do things differently , but i would be considered a bad parent if i did n't teach my children to be croc-savvy steve irwin the act has brought comparisons with michael jackson 's dangling of his child over a hotel balcony .
dozens of people rang a childcare hotline after mr irwin 's performance , and the australian family association called the conduct " child abuse " .
the childhood foundation condemned the move as reckless .
" it 's neglect ...
i do n't think we should use children as props , and definitely not in situations that are going to put them in such danger , " said the foundation 's joe tucci .
investigation telephone lines of radio and television chat shows were jammed with people calling to express their disapproval .
local media said police went to the zoo to tell mr irwin of people 's objections to the incident , but said he had not committed any criminal offence .
queensland 's acting premier terry mackenroth said a government office for child welfare also spoke to the irwin family to ensure there would be no repeat performance .
steve irwin , with his wife terry , defended his actions " they claim that the child was not in danger but they understand people 's concerns and they have assured children 's services that it wo n't happen again , " he said .
the state 's families ' department confirmed it was seeking unedited copies of the tape from the irwin family to assess whether workplace health and safety regulations were breached .
" i have seen the television footage and while i have no doubt the irwins love their children very much , i believe it was an error of judgement to place a baby in a potentially dangerous situation , " said families ' minister judy spence .
' croc savvy ' baby to gasps from his audience , steve irwin cradled one-month-old robert under one arm while dangling a piece of chicken from the other in front of a four metre -lrb- 13 foot -rrb- crocodile .
once the meat was snapped up , mr irwin turned to his son and said : " good boy , bob " .
jackson apologised after dangling his baby over a hotel balcony the crocodile expert defended his act , which included his american wife terri carrying robert into the crocodile enclosure .
he said he was in control the whole time and the baby was never in danger .
in any case his children had to grow up to be " croc savvy " living so close to such reptiles .
" if i could have my time again i would probably do things differently , " he admitted .
" but i would be considered a bad parent if i did n't teach my children to be croc-savvy . "
mrs irwin said her baby enjoyed the experience .
" when i put him back in the pram he had big eyes and he was smiling and it was a wonderful sensory experience for him .
he dug it , " she said .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's philippa young " according to baby bob 's dad , it 's never too early to get ' croc-savvy " ' see also : traps set for hk croc 07 dec 03 -pipe- asia-pacific hunter gives up on hk croc 27 nov 03 -pipe- asia-pacific crocodile foils new capture bid 17 nov 03 -pipe- asia-pacific hong kong crocodile eludes hunter 16 nov 03 -pipe- asia-pacific hong kong crocodile hunt begins 14 nov 03 -pipe- asia-pacific croc hunter heads for hong kong 11 nov 03 -pipe- asia-pacific croc on the loose in hong kong 04 nov 03 -pipe- asia-pacific related internet links : steve irwin 's homepage the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories anger over jailed china dissident fears grow for hmong in thailand death row clemency plea to china products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 5,771 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- inquiry into croc baby stunt home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog languages last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 06:30 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version inquiry into croc baby stunt steve irwin said he had to teach his children to be " croc-savvy " australia 's celebrity crocodile hunter is facing a state government investigation after holding his baby son near the jaws of a crocodile .
steve irwin sparked outrage across australia after cradling his one-month-old a metre away from the reptile during a show at his queensland zoo .
the queensland authorities are asking for unedited tapes of the incident to see if it breached safety regulations .
steve irwin defended his actions but admitted there would be no repeat of his controversial performance .
if i could have my time again i would probably do things differently , but i would be considered a bad parent if i did n't teach my children to be croc-savvy steve irwin the act has brought comparisons with michael jackson 's dangling of his child over a hotel balcony .
dozens of people rang a childcare hotline after mr irwin 's performance , and the australian family association called the conduct " child abuse " .
the childhood foundation condemned the move as reckless .
" it 's neglect ...
i do n't think we should use children as props , and definitely not in situations that are going to put them in such danger , " said the foundation 's joe tucci .
investigation telephone lines of radio and television chat shows were jammed with people calling to express their disapproval .
local media said police went to the zoo to tell mr irwin of people 's objections to the incident , but said he had not committed any criminal offence .
queensland 's acting premier terry mackenroth said a government office for child welfare also spoke to the irwin family to ensure there would be no repeat performance .
steve irwin , with his wife terry , defended his actions " they claim that the child was not in danger but they understand people 's concerns and they have assured children 's services that it wo n't happen again , " he said .
the state 's families ' department confirmed it was seeking unedited copies of the tape from the irwin family to assess whether workplace health and safety regulations were breached .
" i have seen the television footage and while i have no doubt the irwins love their children very much , i believe it was an error of judgement to place a baby in a potentially dangerous situation , " said families ' minister judy spence .
' croc savvy ' baby to gasps from his audience , steve irwin cradled one-month-old robert under one arm while dangling a piece of chicken from the other in front of a four metre -lrb- 13 foot -rrb- crocodile .
once the meat was snapped up , mr irwin turned to his son and said : " good boy , bob " .
jackson apologised after dangling his baby over a hotel balcony the crocodile expert defended his act , which included his american wife terri carrying robert into the crocodile enclosure .
he said he was in control the whole time and the baby was never in danger .
in any case his children had to grow up to be " croc savvy " living so close to such reptiles .
" if i could have my time again i would probably do things differently , " he admitted .
" but i would be considered a bad parent if i did n't teach my children to be croc-savvy . "
mrs irwin said her baby enjoyed the experience .
" when i put him back in the pram he had big eyes and he was smiling and it was a wonderful sensory experience for him .
he dug it , " she said .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's philippa young " according to baby bob 's dad , it 's never too early to get ' croc-savvy " ' see also : traps set for hk croc 07 dec 03 -pipe- asia-pacific hunter gives up on hk croc 27 nov 03 -pipe- asia-pacific crocodile foils new capture bid 17 nov 03 -pipe- asia-pacific hong kong crocodile eludes hunter 16 nov 03 -pipe- asia-pacific hong kong crocodile hunt begins 14 nov 03 -pipe- asia-pacific croc hunter heads for hong kong 11 nov 03 -pipe- asia-pacific croc on the loose in hong kong 04 nov 03 -pipe- asia-pacific related internet links : steve irwin 's homepage the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories australia in jakarta asylum talks hague calls for closer china ties ' killer mushroom ' found in china products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 17,729 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- walters set for home town honour home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 06:44 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version walters set for home town honour walters has won two baftas actress julie walters and comedian frank skinner are to get the freedom of their home town in the black country .
sandwell borough council is expected to approve the move at a meeting on tuesday , to mark its 30th birthday .
walters , skinner and west bromwich albion footballing legend cyrille regis would become freemen in march .
sandwell was formed as part of a local government shake-up in 1974 , and the trio would bring the total number of people who share the honour to six .
they include former commons speaker and west bromwich west mp betty boothroyd .
it is not an honour which is given out lightly bill thomas leader , sandwell council council leader bill thomas said the three would be made honorary freeman next march .
he said : " we want to mark the anniversary as best we can .
" sandwell has only three other freemen at the moment .
" it is not an honour which is given out lightly . "
walters was born in smethwick and is one of british television 's most popular actresses .
she also received oscar nominations for films educating rita and billy elliot .
skinner , raised in oldbury , hosts the frank skinner show on itv1 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc black country sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : comic skinner tries second sitcom 24 aug 03 -pipe- west midlands julie walters wins olivier 23 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment walters leads uk oscars charge 13 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment skinner crowned tv comedy king 16 dec 01 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links : julie walters related internet links : itv the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories ex-mi6 man admits secrecy breach tests on flats fire arrest woman wave hub project ' is going ahead ' products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 19,743 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- walters set for home town honour home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 06:44 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version walters set for home town honour walters has won two baftas actress julie walters and comedian frank skinner are to get the freedom of their home town in the black country .
sandwell borough council is expected to approve the move at a meeting on tuesday , to mark its 30th birthday .
walters , skinner and west bromwich albion footballing legend cyrille regis would become freemen in march .
sandwell was formed as part of a local government shake-up in 1974 , and the trio would bring the total number of people who share the honour to six .
they include former commons speaker and west bromwich west mp betty boothroyd .
it is not an honour which is given out lightly bill thomas leader , sandwell council council leader bill thomas said the three would be made honorary freeman next march .
he said : " we want to mark the anniversary as best we can .
" sandwell has only three other freemen at the moment .
" it is not an honour which is given out lightly . "
walters was born in smethwick and is one of british television 's most popular actresses .
she also received oscar nominations for films educating rita and billy elliot .
skinner , raised in oldbury , hosts the frank skinner show on itv1 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc black country sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : comic skinner tries second sitcom 24 aug 03 -pipe- west midlands julie walters wins olivier 23 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment walters leads uk oscars charge 13 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment skinner crowned tv comedy king 16 dec 01 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links : julie walters related internet links : itv the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories ex-mi6 man admits secrecy breach tests on flats fire arrest woman wave hub project ' is going ahead ' products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 8,800 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- walters set for home town honour home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 06:44 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version walters set for home town honour walters has won two baftas actress julie walters and comedian frank skinner are to get the freedom of their home town in the black country .
sandwell borough council is expected to approve the move at a meeting on tuesday , to mark its 30th birthday .
walters , skinner and west bromwich albion footballing legend cyrille regis would become freemen in march .
sandwell was formed as part of a local government shake-up in 1974 , and the trio would bring the total number of people who share the honour to six .
they include former commons speaker and west bromwich west mp betty boothroyd .
it is not an honour which is given out lightly bill thomas leader , sandwell council council leader bill thomas said the three would be made honorary freeman next march .
he said : " we want to mark the anniversary as best we can .
" sandwell has only three other freemen at the moment .
" it is not an honour which is given out lightly . "
walters was born in smethwick and is one of british television 's most popular actresses .
she also received oscar nominations for films educating rita and billy elliot .
skinner , raised in oldbury , hosts the frank skinner show on itv1 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc black country sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : comic skinner tries second sitcom 24 aug 03 -pipe- west midlands julie walters wins olivier 23 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment walters leads uk oscars charge 13 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment skinner crowned tv comedy king 16 dec 01 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links : julie walters related internet links : itv the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories husband arrested after body find flooded town 's new bridge to open indecent caller to schools sought products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 34,943 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- walters set for home town honour home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 06:44 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version walters set for home town honour walters has won two baftas actress julie walters and comedian frank skinner are to get the freedom of their home town in the black country .
sandwell borough council is expected to approve the move at a meeting on tuesday , to mark its 30th birthday .
walters , skinner and west bromwich albion footballing legend cyrille regis would become freemen in march .
sandwell was formed as part of a local government shake-up in 1974 , and the trio would bring the total number of people who share the honour to six .
they include former commons speaker and west bromwich west mp betty boothroyd .
it is not an honour which is given out lightly bill thomas leader , sandwell council council leader bill thomas said the three would be made honorary freeman next march .
he said : " we want to mark the anniversary as best we can .
" sandwell has only three other freemen at the moment .
" it is not an honour which is given out lightly . "
walters was born in smethwick and is one of british television 's most popular actresses .
she also received oscar nominations for films educating rita and billy elliot .
skinner , raised in oldbury , hosts the frank skinner show on itv1 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc black country sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : comic skinner tries second sitcom 24 aug 03 -pipe- west midlands julie walters wins olivier 23 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment walters leads uk oscars charge 13 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment skinner crowned tv comedy king 16 dec 01 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links : julie walters related internet links : itv the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories snowfall causes more disruption abuse daubed on ' tortured victim ' guard ' planned ' fatal store raid products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 59,014 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- walters set for home town honour home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 06:44 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version walters set for home town honour walters has won two baftas actress julie walters and comedian frank skinner are to get the freedom of their home town in the black country .
sandwell borough council is expected to approve the move at a meeting on tuesday , to mark its 30th birthday .
walters , skinner and west bromwich albion footballing legend cyrille regis would become freemen in march .
sandwell was formed as part of a local government shake-up in 1974 , and the trio would bring the total number of people who share the honour to six .
they include former commons speaker and west bromwich west mp betty boothroyd .
it is not an honour which is given out lightly bill thomas leader , sandwell council council leader bill thomas said the three would be made honorary freeman next march .
he said : " we want to mark the anniversary as best we can .
" sandwell has only three other freemen at the moment .
" it is not an honour which is given out lightly . "
walters was born in smethwick and is one of british television 's most popular actresses .
she also received oscar nominations for films educating rita and billy elliot .
skinner , raised in oldbury , hosts the frank skinner show on itv1 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc black country sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : comic skinner tries second sitcom 24 aug 03 -pipe- west midlands julie walters wins olivier 23 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment walters leads uk oscars charge 13 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment skinner crowned tv comedy king 16 dec 01 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links : julie walters related internet links : itv the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories ex-mi6 man admits secrecy breach tests on flats fire arrest woman wave hub project ' is going ahead ' products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 85,314 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- walters set for home town honour home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 06:44 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version walters set for home town honour walters has won two baftas actress julie walters and comedian frank skinner are to get the freedom of their home town in the black country .
sandwell borough council is expected to approve the move at a meeting on tuesday , to mark its 30th birthday .
walters , skinner and west bromwich albion footballing legend cyrille regis would become freemen in march .
sandwell was formed as part of a local government shake-up in 1974 , and the trio would bring the total number of people who share the honour to six .
they include former commons speaker and west bromwich west mp betty boothroyd .
it is not an honour which is given out lightly bill thomas leader , sandwell council council leader bill thomas said the three would be made honorary freeman next march .
he said : " we want to mark the anniversary as best we can .
" sandwell has only three other freemen at the moment .
" it is not an honour which is given out lightly . "
walters was born in smethwick and is one of british television 's most popular actresses .
she also received oscar nominations for films educating rita and billy elliot .
skinner , raised in oldbury , hosts the frank skinner show on itv1 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc black country sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : comic skinner tries second sitcom 24 aug 03 -pipe- west midlands julie walters wins olivier 23 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment walters leads uk oscars charge 13 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment skinner crowned tv comedy king 16 dec 01 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links : julie walters related internet links : itv the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories ex-mi6 man admits secrecy breach tests on flats fire arrest woman wave hub project ' is going ahead ' products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 9,986 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- walters set for home town honour home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 06:44 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version walters set for home town honour walters has won two baftas actress julie walters and comedian frank skinner are to get the freedom of their home town in the black country .
sandwell borough council is expected to approve the move at a meeting on tuesday , to mark its 30th birthday .
walters , skinner and west bromwich albion footballing legend cyrille regis would become freemen in march .
sandwell was formed as part of a local government shake-up in 1974 , and the trio would bring the total number of people who share the honour to six .
they include former commons speaker and west bromwich west mp betty boothroyd .
it is not an honour which is given out lightly bill thomas leader , sandwell council council leader bill thomas said the three would be made honorary freeman next march .
he said : " we want to mark the anniversary as best we can .
" sandwell has only three other freemen at the moment .
" it is not an honour which is given out lightly . "
walters was born in smethwick and is one of british television 's most popular actresses .
she also received oscar nominations for films educating rita and billy elliot .
skinner , raised in oldbury , hosts the frank skinner show on itv1 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc black country sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : comic skinner tries second sitcom 24 aug 03 -pipe- west midlands julie walters wins olivier 23 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment walters leads uk oscars charge 13 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment skinner crowned tv comedy king 16 dec 01 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links : julie walters related internet links : itv the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories ex-mi6 man admits secrecy breach tests on flats fire arrest woman wave hub project ' is going ahead ' products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 8,229 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- walters set for home town honour home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 06:44 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version walters set for home town honour walters has won two baftas actress julie walters and comedian frank skinner are to get the freedom of their home town in the black country .
sandwell borough council is expected to approve the move at a meeting on tuesday , to mark its 30th birthday .
walters , skinner and west bromwich albion footballing legend cyrille regis would become freemen in march .
sandwell was formed as part of a local government shake-up in 1974 , and the trio would bring the total number of people who share the honour to six .
they include former commons speaker and west bromwich west mp betty boothroyd .
it is not an honour which is given out lightly bill thomas leader , sandwell council council leader bill thomas said the three would be made honorary freeman next march .
he said : " we want to mark the anniversary as best we can .
" sandwell has only three other freemen at the moment .
" it is not an honour which is given out lightly . "
walters was born in smethwick and is one of british television 's most popular actresses .
she also received oscar nominations for films educating rita and billy elliot .
skinner , raised in oldbury , hosts the frank skinner show on itv1 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc black country sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : comic skinner tries second sitcom 24 aug 03 -pipe- west midlands julie walters wins olivier 23 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment walters leads uk oscars charge 13 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment skinner crowned tv comedy king 16 dec 01 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links : julie walters related internet links : itv the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories ex-mi6 man admits secrecy breach tests on flats fire arrest woman wave hub project ' is going ahead ' products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 19,657 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- walters set for home town honour home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 06:44 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version walters set for home town honour walters has won two baftas actress julie walters and comedian frank skinner are to get the freedom of their home town in the black country .
sandwell borough council is expected to approve the move at a meeting on tuesday , to mark its 30th birthday .
walters , skinner and west bromwich albion footballing legend cyrille regis would become freemen in march .
sandwell was formed as part of a local government shake-up in 1974 , and the trio would bring the total number of people who share the honour to six .
they include former commons speaker and west bromwich west mp betty boothroyd .
it is not an honour which is given out lightly bill thomas leader , sandwell council council leader bill thomas said the three would be made honorary freeman next march .
he said : " we want to mark the anniversary as best we can .
" sandwell has only three other freemen at the moment .
" it is not an honour which is given out lightly . "
walters was born in smethwick and is one of british television 's most popular actresses .
she also received oscar nominations for films educating rita and billy elliot .
skinner , raised in oldbury , hosts the frank skinner show on itv1 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc black country sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : comic skinner tries second sitcom 24 aug 03 -pipe- west midlands julie walters wins olivier 23 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment walters leads uk oscars charge 13 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment skinner crowned tv comedy king 16 dec 01 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links : julie walters related internet links : itv the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories ex-mi6 man admits secrecy breach tests on flats fire arrest woman wave hub project ' is going ahead ' products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 42,986 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- walters set for home town honour home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 06:44 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version walters set for home town honour walters has won two baftas actress julie walters and comedian frank skinner are to get the freedom of their home town in the black country .
sandwell borough council is expected to approve the move at a meeting on tuesday , to mark its 30th birthday .
walters , skinner and west bromwich albion footballing legend cyrille regis would become freemen in march .
sandwell was formed as part of a local government shake-up in 1974 , and the trio would bring the total number of people who share the honour to six .
they include former commons speaker and west bromwich west mp betty boothroyd .
it is not an honour which is given out lightly bill thomas leader , sandwell council council leader bill thomas said the three would be made honorary freeman next march .
he said : " we want to mark the anniversary as best we can .
" sandwell has only three other freemen at the moment .
" it is not an honour which is given out lightly . "
walters was born in smethwick and is one of british television 's most popular actresses .
she also received oscar nominations for films educating rita and billy elliot .
skinner , raised in oldbury , hosts the frank skinner show on itv1 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc black country sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : comic skinner tries second sitcom 24 aug 03 -pipe- west midlands julie walters wins olivier 23 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment walters leads uk oscars charge 13 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment skinner crowned tv comedy king 16 dec 01 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links : julie walters related internet links : itv the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories ex-mi6 man admits secrecy breach tests on flats fire arrest woman wave hub project ' is going ahead ' products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 70,657 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- walters set for home town honour home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 06:44 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version walters set for home town honour walters has won two baftas actress julie walters and comedian frank skinner are to get the freedom of their home town in the black country .
sandwell borough council is expected to approve the move at a meeting on tuesday , to mark its 30th birthday .
walters , skinner and west bromwich albion footballing legend cyrille regis would become freemen in march .
sandwell was formed as part of a local government shake-up in 1974 , and the trio would bring the total number of people who share the honour to six .
they include former commons speaker and west bromwich west mp betty boothroyd .
it is not an honour which is given out lightly bill thomas leader , sandwell council council leader bill thomas said the three would be made honorary freeman next march .
he said : " we want to mark the anniversary as best we can .
" sandwell has only three other freemen at the moment .
" it is not an honour which is given out lightly . "
walters was born in smethwick and is one of british television 's most popular actresses .
she also received oscar nominations for films educating rita and billy elliot .
skinner , raised in oldbury , hosts the frank skinner show on itv1 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc black country sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : comic skinner tries second sitcom 24 aug 03 -pipe- west midlands julie walters wins olivier 23 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment walters leads uk oscars charge 13 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment skinner crowned tv comedy king 16 dec 01 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links : julie walters related internet links : itv the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories ex-mi6 man admits secrecy breach tests on flats fire arrest woman wave hub project ' is going ahead ' products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 19,771 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- walters set for home town honour home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 06:44 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version walters set for home town honour walters has won two baftas actress julie walters and comedian frank skinner are to get the freedom of their home town in the black country .
sandwell borough council is expected to approve the move at a meeting on tuesday , to mark its 30th birthday .
walters , skinner and west bromwich albion footballing legend cyrille regis would become freemen in march .
sandwell was formed as part of a local government shake-up in 1974 , and the trio would bring the total number of people who share the honour to six .
they include former commons speaker and west bromwich west mp betty boothroyd .
it is not an honour which is given out lightly bill thomas leader , sandwell council council leader bill thomas said the three would be made honorary freeman next march .
he said : " we want to mark the anniversary as best we can .
" sandwell has only three other freemen at the moment .
" it is not an honour which is given out lightly . "
walters was born in smethwick and is one of british television 's most popular actresses .
she also received oscar nominations for films educating rita and billy elliot .
skinner , raised in oldbury , hosts the frank skinner show on itv1 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc black country sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : comic skinner tries second sitcom 24 aug 03 -pipe- west midlands julie walters wins olivier 23 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment walters leads uk oscars charge 13 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment skinner crowned tv comedy king 16 dec 01 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links : julie walters related internet links : itv the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories ex-mi6 man admits secrecy breach tests on flats fire arrest woman wave hub project ' is going ahead ' products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 50,386 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- walters set for home town honour home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 06:44 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version walters set for home town honour walters has won two baftas actress julie walters and comedian frank skinner are to get the freedom of their home town in the black country .
sandwell borough council is expected to approve the move at a meeting on tuesday , to mark its 30th birthday .
walters , skinner and west bromwich albion footballing legend cyrille regis would become freemen in march .
sandwell was formed as part of a local government shake-up in 1974 , and the trio would bring the total number of people who share the honour to six .
they include former commons speaker and west bromwich west mp betty boothroyd .
it is not an honour which is given out lightly bill thomas leader , sandwell council council leader bill thomas said the three would be made honorary freeman next march .
he said : " we want to mark the anniversary as best we can .
" sandwell has only three other freemen at the moment .
" it is not an honour which is given out lightly . "
walters was born in smethwick and is one of british television 's most popular actresses .
she also received oscar nominations for films educating rita and billy elliot .
skinner , raised in oldbury , hosts the frank skinner show on itv1 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc black country sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : comic skinner tries second sitcom 24 aug 03 -pipe- west midlands julie walters wins olivier 23 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment walters leads uk oscars charge 13 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment skinner crowned tv comedy king 16 dec 01 -pipe- entertainment related bbc links : julie walters related internet links : itv the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories flights grounded after ash return ' shock ' over fatal flat stabbing england seal world twenty20 title products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 39,329 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- walters set for home town honour bbc news / england graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- uk election -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- education -pipe- magazine saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 06:44 gmt walters set for home town honour actress julie walters and comedian frank skinner are to get the freedom of their home town in the black country .
sandwell borough council is expected to approve the move at a meeting on tuesday , to mark its 30th birthday .
walters , skinner and west bromwich albion footballing legend cyrille regis would become freemen in march .
sandwell was formed as part of a local government shake-up in 1974 , and the trio would bring the total number of people who share the honour to six .
they include former commons speaker and west bromwich west mp betty boothroyd . "
it is not an honour which is given out lightly " bill thomas leader , sandwell council council leader bill thomas said the three would be made honorary freeman next march .
he said : " we want to mark the anniversary as best we can .
" sandwell has only three other freemen at the moment .
" it is not an honour which is given out lightly . "
walters was born in smethwick and is one of british television 's most popular actresses .
she also received oscar nominations for films educating rita and billy elliot .
skinner , raised in oldbury , hosts the frank skinner show on itv1 .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : comic skinner tries second sitcom -lrb- 24 aug 03 -pipe- west midlands -rrb- julie walters wins olivier -lrb- 23 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment -rrb- walters leads uk oscars charge -lrb- 13 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment -rrb- skinner crowned tv comedy king -lrb- 16 dec 01 -pipe- entertainment -rrb- related internet links : julie walters itv the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- uk election -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- ' specific threat ' to ba flight home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 09:02 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version ' specific threat ' to ba flight security has been stepped up at heathrow british airways cancelled two flights to washington because of fears that a terrorist suspect was planning to board the aircraft , the bbc has learned .
the report has not been confirmed , but it is thought terrorists could have been planning to hijack the plane .
the ba223 flight from heathrow was grounded for the second day running on friday and hours later , ba said it had cancelled a flight to saudi arabia .
the airline is consulting ministers over saturday 's washington flight .
a british airways spokeswoman said the airline was still hoping to run the 1505 gmt service , and a decision on whether to fly would be made on saturday morning .
bbc security correspondent frank gardner said the washington flights on thursday and friday had been grounded because a terrorist suspect known to us authorities was believed to be trying to board it on both days , according to a source .
the suspect was thought to be attempting to hijack the aircraft and crash it into a target in washington , but he did not turn up at the airport , said the source .
stranded in a separate development , a source told the us network abc that someone outside the us had supplied information to american authorities about a plan to hijack flight 223 .
american security officials are trying to establish how reliable the information is .
the assistant director of the fbi in washington , michael mason , acknowledged the flights were being cancelled in response to a specific threat - what he described as coded talk .
flights hit by security fears christmas - six paris to los angeles flights cancelled wednesday - aeromexico flight from mexico city to los angeles cancelled wednesday - ba flight 223 shadowed by fighter jets , plane searched and passengers questioned thursday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled thursday - air france new york flight lands in canada for baggage check thursday - ba flight from washington delayed for extra security checks friday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled saturday - ba flight 263 from london to riyadh cancelled transport secretary alistair darling told bbc radio 4 's today programme tighter security may mean some inconvenience for air passengers .
" the threat that we are now facing is going to endure for many years , " he warned .
he said : " there may be a need to ground particular flights because of specific information we have got . "
but he said this did not mean there would be wholesale cancellation of flights .
on wednesday flight ba223 was held on the tarmac in the us capital while agents questioned passengers .
in a separate development on friday , ba cancelled flight 263 which had been due to leave for the saudi capital riyadh from london at 1330 gmt on saturday .
its return flight on sunday has also been cancelled .
ba also said it had cancelled a flight to riyadh on wednesday and its return flight on saturday , and was reviewing whether to fly there on monday .
the decisions on both the riyadh and washington flights are thought to have followed advice from the uk government , prompted by us intelligence .
passengers had been checking in for their trips to the us capital on friday when ba said the plane would not be taking off .
ba hoped to offer the 300 passengers alternative flights - but some were left feeling uneasy .
among them , deepa menon , 28 , a law student from washington dc , said : " i am irritated .
" i am sure there are reasons - but i do wish we had known what was going on earlier . "
and svenja steinfelder , 29 , a german research fellow studying in washington , said the scares had left her feeling " very nervous " about flying .
friday 's early evening ba flight to washington - the ba225 - took off 40 minutes later than its scheduled departure time of 1840 gmt after taking some of the passengers from the grounded ba223 .
later on friday it emerged home secretary david blunkett had held phone talks with us homeland security secretary tom ridge to discuss ways to minimise disruption on flights to the us .
america recently tightened security after intelligence warnings led its terror alert status to be raised to orange - the second highest level available .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's matt prodger " another day , another plane grounded " see also : plane knifeman arrested 02 jan 04 -pipe- beds / bucks / herts q & a : flight terror fears 02 jan 04 -pipe- uk q & a : ba passenger rights 02 jan 04 -pipe- business ba flight cancelled over security 02 jan 04 -pipe- americas us agents search ba aircraft 01 jan 04 -pipe- americas france ' confirms ' fighter escorts 02 jan 04 -pipe- europe air france resumes flights to la 26 dec 03 -pipe- americas related internet links : ba dulles airport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk stories major manhunt for afghan soldier unemployment dips to 2.47 million pm condemns sympathy for moat products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 18,143 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- ' specific threat ' to ba flight home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 09:02 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version ' specific threat ' to ba flight security has been stepped up at heathrow british airways cancelled two flights to washington because of fears that a terrorist suspect was planning to board the aircraft , the bbc has learned .
the report has not been confirmed , but it is thought terrorists could have been planning to hijack the plane .
the ba223 flight from heathrow was grounded for the second day running on friday and hours later , ba said it had cancelled a flight to saudi arabia .
the airline is consulting ministers over saturday 's washington flight .
a british airways spokeswoman said the airline was still hoping to run the 1505 gmt service , and a decision on whether to fly would be made on saturday morning .
bbc security correspondent frank gardner said the washington flights on thursday and friday had been grounded because a terrorist suspect known to us authorities was believed to be trying to board it on both days , according to a source .
the suspect was thought to be attempting to hijack the aircraft and crash it into a target in washington , but he did not turn up at the airport , said the source .
stranded in a separate development , a source told the us network abc that someone outside the us had supplied information to american authorities about a plan to hijack flight 223 .
american security officials are trying to establish how reliable the information is .
the assistant director of the fbi in washington , michael mason , acknowledged the flights were being cancelled in response to a specific threat - what he described as coded talk .
flights hit by security fears christmas - six paris to los angeles flights cancelled wednesday - aeromexico flight from mexico city to los angeles cancelled wednesday - ba flight 223 shadowed by fighter jets , plane searched and passengers questioned thursday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled thursday - air france new york flight lands in canada for baggage check thursday - ba flight from washington delayed for extra security checks friday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled saturday - ba flight 263 from london to riyadh cancelled transport secretary alistair darling told bbc radio 4 's today programme tighter security may mean some inconvenience for air passengers .
" the threat that we are now facing is going to endure for many years , " he warned .
he said : " there may be a need to ground particular flights because of specific information we have got . "
but he said this did not mean there would be wholesale cancellation of flights .
on wednesday flight ba223 was held on the tarmac in the us capital while agents questioned passengers .
in a separate development on friday , ba cancelled flight 263 which had been due to leave for the saudi capital riyadh from london at 1330 gmt on saturday .
its return flight on sunday has also been cancelled .
ba also said it had cancelled a flight to riyadh on wednesday and its return flight on saturday , and was reviewing whether to fly there on monday .
the decisions on both the riyadh and washington flights are thought to have followed advice from the uk government , prompted by us intelligence .
passengers had been checking in for their trips to the us capital on friday when ba said the plane would not be taking off .
ba hoped to offer the 300 passengers alternative flights - but some were left feeling uneasy .
among them , deepa menon , 28 , a law student from washington dc , said : " i am irritated .
" i am sure there are reasons - but i do wish we had known what was going on earlier . "
and svenja steinfelder , 29 , a german research fellow studying in washington , said the scares had left her feeling " very nervous " about flying .
friday 's early evening ba flight to washington - the ba225 - took off 40 minutes later than its scheduled departure time of 1840 gmt after taking some of the passengers from the grounded ba223 .
later on friday it emerged home secretary david blunkett had held phone talks with us homeland security secretary tom ridge to discuss ways to minimise disruption on flights to the us .
america recently tightened security after intelligence warnings led its terror alert status to be raised to orange - the second highest level available .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's matt prodger " another day , another plane grounded " see also : plane knifeman arrested 02 jan 04 -pipe- beds / bucks / herts q & a : flight terror fears 02 jan 04 -pipe- uk q & a : ba passenger rights 02 jan 04 -pipe- business ba flight cancelled over security 02 jan 04 -pipe- americas us agents search ba aircraft 01 jan 04 -pipe- americas france ' confirms ' fighter escorts 02 jan 04 -pipe- europe air france resumes flights to la 26 dec 03 -pipe- americas related internet links : ba dulles airport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk stories major manhunt for afghan soldier unemployment dips to 2.47 million pm condemns sympathy for moat products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 11,657 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- ' specific threat ' to ba flight home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 09:02 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version ' specific threat ' to ba flight security has been stepped up at heathrow british airways cancelled two flights to washington because of fears that a terrorist suspect was planning to board the aircraft , the bbc has learned .
the report has not been confirmed , but it is thought terrorists could have been planning to hijack the plane .
the ba223 flight from heathrow was grounded for the second day running on friday and hours later , ba said it had cancelled a flight to saudi arabia .
the airline is consulting ministers over saturday 's washington flight .
a british airways spokeswoman said the airline was still hoping to run the 1505 gmt service , and a decision on whether to fly would be made on saturday morning .
bbc security correspondent frank gardner said the washington flights on thursday and friday had been grounded because a terrorist suspect known to us authorities was believed to be trying to board it on both days , according to a source .
the suspect was thought to be attempting to hijack the aircraft and crash it into a target in washington , but he did not turn up at the airport , said the source .
stranded in a separate development , a source told the us network abc that someone outside the us had supplied information to american authorities about a plan to hijack flight 223 .
american security officials are trying to establish how reliable the information is .
the assistant director of the fbi in washington , michael mason , acknowledged the flights were being cancelled in response to a specific threat - what he described as coded talk .
flights hit by security fears christmas - six paris to los angeles flights cancelled wednesday - aeromexico flight from mexico city to los angeles cancelled wednesday - ba flight 223 shadowed by fighter jets , plane searched and passengers questioned thursday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled thursday - air france new york flight lands in canada for baggage check thursday - ba flight from washington delayed for extra security checks friday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled saturday - ba flight 263 from london to riyadh cancelled transport secretary alistair darling told bbc radio 4 's today programme tighter security may mean some inconvenience for air passengers .
" the threat that we are now facing is going to endure for many years , " he warned .
he said : " there may be a need to ground particular flights because of specific information we have got . "
but he said this did not mean there would be wholesale cancellation of flights .
on wednesday flight ba223 was held on the tarmac in the us capital while agents questioned passengers .
in a separate development on friday , ba cancelled flight 263 which had been due to leave for the saudi capital riyadh from london at 1330 gmt on saturday .
its return flight on sunday has also been cancelled .
ba also said it had cancelled a flight to riyadh on wednesday and its return flight on saturday , and was reviewing whether to fly there on monday .
the decisions on both the riyadh and washington flights are thought to have followed advice from the uk government , prompted by us intelligence .
passengers had been checking in for their trips to the us capital on friday when ba said the plane would not be taking off .
ba hoped to offer the 300 passengers alternative flights - but some were left feeling uneasy .
among them , deepa menon , 28 , a law student from washington dc , said : " i am irritated .
" i am sure there are reasons - but i do wish we had known what was going on earlier . "
and svenja steinfelder , 29 , a german research fellow studying in washington , said the scares had left her feeling " very nervous " about flying .
friday 's early evening ba flight to washington - the ba225 - took off 40 minutes later than its scheduled departure time of 1840 gmt after taking some of the passengers from the grounded ba223 .
later on friday it emerged home secretary david blunkett had held phone talks with us homeland security secretary tom ridge to discuss ways to minimise disruption on flights to the us .
america recently tightened security after intelligence warnings led its terror alert status to be raised to orange - the second highest level available .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's matt prodger " another day , another plane grounded " see also : plane knifeman arrested 02 jan 04 -pipe- beds / bucks / herts q & a : flight terror fears 02 jan 04 -pipe- uk q & a : ba passenger rights 02 jan 04 -pipe- business ba flight cancelled over security 02 jan 04 -pipe- americas us agents search ba aircraft 01 jan 04 -pipe- americas france ' confirms ' fighter escorts 02 jan 04 -pipe- europe air france resumes flights to la 26 dec 03 -pipe- americas related internet links : ba dulles airport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk stories major manhunt for afghan soldier unemployment dips to 2.47 million pm condemns sympathy for moat products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 39,986 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- ' specific threat ' to ba flight home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 09:02 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version ' specific threat ' to ba flight security has been stepped up at heathrow british airways cancelled two flights to washington because of fears that a terrorist suspect was planning to board the aircraft , the bbc has learned .
the report has not been confirmed , but it is thought terrorists could have been planning to hijack the plane .
the ba223 flight from heathrow was grounded for the second day running on friday and hours later , ba said it had cancelled a flight to saudi arabia .
the airline is consulting ministers over saturday 's washington flight .
a british airways spokeswoman said the airline was still hoping to run the 1505 gmt service , and a decision on whether to fly would be made on saturday morning .
bbc security correspondent frank gardner said the washington flights on thursday and friday had been grounded because a terrorist suspect known to us authorities was believed to be trying to board it on both days , according to a source .
the suspect was thought to be attempting to hijack the aircraft and crash it into a target in washington , but he did not turn up at the airport , said the source .
stranded in a separate development , a source told the us network abc that someone outside the us had supplied information to american authorities about a plan to hijack flight 223 .
american security officials are trying to establish how reliable the information is .
the assistant director of the fbi in washington , michael mason , acknowledged the flights were being cancelled in response to a specific threat - what he described as coded talk .
flights hit by security fears christmas - six paris to los angeles flights cancelled wednesday - aeromexico flight from mexico city to los angeles cancelled wednesday - ba flight 223 shadowed by fighter jets , plane searched and passengers questioned thursday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled thursday - air france new york flight lands in canada for baggage check thursday - ba flight from washington delayed for extra security checks friday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled saturday - ba flight 263 from london to riyadh cancelled transport secretary alistair darling told bbc radio 4 's today programme tighter security may mean some inconvenience for air passengers .
" the threat that we are now facing is going to endure for many years , " he warned .
he said : " there may be a need to ground particular flights because of specific information we have got . "
but he said this did not mean there would be wholesale cancellation of flights .
on wednesday flight ba223 was held on the tarmac in the us capital while agents questioned passengers .
in a separate development on friday , ba cancelled flight 263 which had been due to leave for the saudi capital riyadh from london at 1330 gmt on saturday .
its return flight on sunday has also been cancelled .
ba also said it had cancelled a flight to riyadh on wednesday and its return flight on saturday , and was reviewing whether to fly there on monday .
the decisions on both the riyadh and washington flights are thought to have followed advice from the uk government , prompted by us intelligence .
passengers had been checking in for their trips to the us capital on friday when ba said the plane would not be taking off .
ba hoped to offer the 300 passengers alternative flights - but some were left feeling uneasy .
among them , deepa menon , 28 , a law student from washington dc , said : " i am irritated .
" i am sure there are reasons - but i do wish we had known what was going on earlier . "
and svenja steinfelder , 29 , a german research fellow studying in washington , said the scares had left her feeling " very nervous " about flying .
friday 's early evening ba flight to washington - the ba225 - took off 40 minutes later than its scheduled departure time of 1840 gmt after taking some of the passengers from the grounded ba223 .
later on friday it emerged home secretary david blunkett had held phone talks with us homeland security secretary tom ridge to discuss ways to minimise disruption on flights to the us .
america recently tightened security after intelligence warnings led its terror alert status to be raised to orange - the second highest level available .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's matt prodger " another day , another plane grounded " see also : plane knifeman arrested 02 jan 04 -pipe- beds / bucks / herts q & a : flight terror fears 02 jan 04 -pipe- uk q & a : ba passenger rights 02 jan 04 -pipe- business ba flight cancelled over security 02 jan 04 -pipe- americas us agents search ba aircraft 01 jan 04 -pipe- americas france ' confirms ' fighter escorts 02 jan 04 -pipe- europe air france resumes flights to la 26 dec 03 -pipe- americas related internet links : ba dulles airport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk stories major manhunt for afghan soldier unemployment dips to 2.47 million pm condemns sympathy for moat products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 7,586 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- ' specific threat ' to ba flight home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 09:02 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version ' specific threat ' to ba flight security has been stepped up at heathrow british airways cancelled two flights to washington because of fears that a terrorist suspect was planning to board the aircraft , the bbc has learned .
the report has not been confirmed , but it is thought terrorists could have been planning to hijack the plane .
the ba223 flight from heathrow was grounded for the second day running on friday and hours later , ba said it had cancelled a flight to saudi arabia .
the airline is consulting ministers over saturday 's washington flight .
a british airways spokeswoman said the airline was still hoping to run the 1505 gmt service , and a decision on whether to fly would be made on saturday morning .
bbc security correspondent frank gardner said the washington flights on thursday and friday had been grounded because a terrorist suspect known to us authorities was believed to be trying to board it on both days , according to a source .
the suspect was thought to be attempting to hijack the aircraft and crash it into a target in washington , but he did not turn up at the airport , said the source .
stranded in a separate development , a source told the us network abc that someone outside the us had supplied information to american authorities about a plan to hijack flight 223 .
american security officials are trying to establish how reliable the information is .
the assistant director of the fbi in washington , michael mason , acknowledged the flights were being cancelled in response to a specific threat - what he described as coded talk .
flights hit by security fears christmas - six paris to los angeles flights cancelled wednesday - aeromexico flight from mexico city to los angeles cancelled wednesday - ba flight 223 shadowed by fighter jets , plane searched and passengers questioned thursday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled thursday - air france new york flight lands in canada for baggage check thursday - ba flight from washington delayed for extra security checks friday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled saturday - ba flight 263 from london to riyadh cancelled transport secretary alistair darling told bbc radio 4 's today programme tighter security may mean some inconvenience for air passengers .
" the threat that we are now facing is going to endure for many years , " he warned .
he said : " there may be a need to ground particular flights because of specific information we have got . "
but he said this did not mean there would be wholesale cancellation of flights .
on wednesday flight ba223 was held on the tarmac in the us capital while agents questioned passengers .
in a separate development on friday , ba cancelled flight 263 which had been due to leave for the saudi capital riyadh from london at 1330 gmt on saturday .
its return flight on sunday has also been cancelled .
ba also said it had cancelled a flight to riyadh on wednesday and its return flight on saturday , and was reviewing whether to fly there on monday .
the decisions on both the riyadh and washington flights are thought to have followed advice from the uk government , prompted by us intelligence .
passengers had been checking in for their trips to the us capital on friday when ba said the plane would not be taking off .
ba hoped to offer the 300 passengers alternative flights - but some were left feeling uneasy .
among them , deepa menon , 28 , a law student from washington dc , said : " i am irritated .
" i am sure there are reasons - but i do wish we had known what was going on earlier . "
and svenja steinfelder , 29 , a german research fellow studying in washington , said the scares had left her feeling " very nervous " about flying .
friday 's early evening ba flight to washington - the ba225 - took off 40 minutes later than its scheduled departure time of 1840 gmt after taking some of the passengers from the grounded ba223 .
later on friday it emerged home secretary david blunkett had held phone talks with us homeland security secretary tom ridge to discuss ways to minimise disruption on flights to the us .
america recently tightened security after intelligence warnings led its terror alert status to be raised to orange - the second highest level available .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's matt prodger " another day , another plane grounded " see also : plane knifeman arrested 02 jan 04 -pipe- beds / bucks / herts q & a : flight terror fears 02 jan 04 -pipe- uk q & a : ba passenger rights 02 jan 04 -pipe- business ba flight cancelled over security 02 jan 04 -pipe- americas us agents search ba aircraft 01 jan 04 -pipe- americas france ' confirms ' fighter escorts 02 jan 04 -pipe- europe air france resumes flights to la 26 dec 03 -pipe- americas related internet links : ba dulles airport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk stories major manhunt for afghan soldier unemployment dips to 2.47 million pm condemns sympathy for moat products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 12,271 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- ' specific threat ' to ba flight home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 09:02 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version ' specific threat ' to ba flight security has been stepped up at heathrow british airways cancelled two flights to washington because of fears that a terrorist suspect was planning to board the aircraft , the bbc has learned .
the report has not been confirmed , but it is thought terrorists could have been planning to hijack the plane .
the ba223 flight from heathrow was grounded for the second day running on friday and hours later , ba said it had cancelled a flight to saudi arabia .
the airline is consulting ministers over saturday 's washington flight .
a british airways spokeswoman said the airline was still hoping to run the 1505 gmt service , and a decision on whether to fly would be made on saturday morning .
bbc security correspondent frank gardner said the washington flights on thursday and friday had been grounded because a terrorist suspect known to us authorities was believed to be trying to board it on both days , according to a source .
the suspect was thought to be attempting to hijack the aircraft and crash it into a target in washington , but he did not turn up at the airport , said the source .
stranded in a separate development , a source told the us network abc that someone outside the us had supplied information to american authorities about a plan to hijack flight 223 .
american security officials are trying to establish how reliable the information is .
the assistant director of the fbi in washington , michael mason , acknowledged the flights were being cancelled in response to a specific threat - what he described as coded talk .
flights hit by security fears christmas - six paris to los angeles flights cancelled wednesday - aeromexico flight from mexico city to los angeles cancelled wednesday - ba flight 223 shadowed by fighter jets , plane searched and passengers questioned thursday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled thursday - air france new york flight lands in canada for baggage check thursday - ba flight from washington delayed for extra security checks friday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled saturday - ba flight 263 from london to riyadh cancelled transport secretary alistair darling told bbc radio 4 's today programme tighter security may mean some inconvenience for air passengers .
" the threat that we are now facing is going to endure for many years , " he warned .
he said : " there may be a need to ground particular flights because of specific information we have got . "
but he said this did not mean there would be wholesale cancellation of flights .
on wednesday flight ba223 was held on the tarmac in the us capital while agents questioned passengers .
in a separate development on friday , ba cancelled flight 263 which had been due to leave for the saudi capital riyadh from london at 1330 gmt on saturday .
its return flight on sunday has also been cancelled .
ba also said it had cancelled a flight to riyadh on wednesday and its return flight on saturday , and was reviewing whether to fly there on monday .
the decisions on both the riyadh and washington flights are thought to have followed advice from the uk government , prompted by us intelligence .
passengers had been checking in for their trips to the us capital on friday when ba said the plane would not be taking off .
ba hoped to offer the 300 passengers alternative flights - but some were left feeling uneasy .
among them , deepa menon , 28 , a law student from washington dc , said : " i am irritated .
" i am sure there are reasons - but i do wish we had known what was going on earlier . "
and svenja steinfelder , 29 , a german research fellow studying in washington , said the scares had left her feeling " very nervous " about flying .
friday 's early evening ba flight to washington - the ba225 - took off 40 minutes later than its scheduled departure time of 1840 gmt after taking some of the passengers from the grounded ba223 .
later on friday it emerged home secretary david blunkett had held phone talks with us homeland security secretary tom ridge to discuss ways to minimise disruption on flights to the us .
america recently tightened security after intelligence warnings led its terror alert status to be raised to orange - the second highest level available .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's matt prodger " another day , another plane grounded " see also : plane knifeman arrested 02 jan 04 -pipe- beds / bucks / herts q & a : flight terror fears 02 jan 04 -pipe- uk q & a : ba passenger rights 02 jan 04 -pipe- business ba flight cancelled over security 02 jan 04 -pipe- americas us agents search ba aircraft 01 jan 04 -pipe- americas france ' confirms ' fighter escorts 02 jan 04 -pipe- europe air france resumes flights to la 26 dec 03 -pipe- americas related internet links : ba dulles airport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk stories major manhunt for afghan soldier unemployment dips to 2.47 million pm condemns sympathy for moat products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 28,314 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- ' specific threat ' to ba flight home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 09:02 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version ' specific threat ' to ba flight security has been stepped up at heathrow british airways cancelled two flights to washington because of fears that a terrorist suspect was planning to board the aircraft , the bbc has learned .
the report has not been confirmed , but it is thought terrorists could have been planning to hijack the plane .
the ba223 flight from heathrow was grounded for the second day running on friday and hours later , ba said it had cancelled a flight to saudi arabia .
the airline is consulting ministers over saturday 's washington flight .
a british airways spokeswoman said the airline was still hoping to run the 1505 gmt service , and a decision on whether to fly would be made on saturday morning .
bbc security correspondent frank gardner said the washington flights on thursday and friday had been grounded because a terrorist suspect known to us authorities was believed to be trying to board it on both days , according to a source .
the suspect was thought to be attempting to hijack the aircraft and crash it into a target in washington , but he did not turn up at the airport , said the source .
stranded in a separate development , a source told the us network abc that someone outside the us had supplied information to american authorities about a plan to hijack flight 223 .
american security officials are trying to establish how reliable the information is .
the assistant director of the fbi in washington , michael mason , acknowledged the flights were being cancelled in response to a specific threat - what he described as coded talk .
flights hit by security fears christmas - six paris to los angeles flights cancelled wednesday - aeromexico flight from mexico city to los angeles cancelled wednesday - ba flight 223 shadowed by fighter jets , plane searched and passengers questioned thursday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled thursday - air france new york flight lands in canada for baggage check thursday - ba flight from washington delayed for extra security checks friday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled saturday - ba flight 263 from london to riyadh cancelled transport secretary alistair darling told bbc radio 4 's today programme tighter security may mean some inconvenience for air passengers .
" the threat that we are now facing is going to endure for many years , " he warned .
he said : " there may be a need to ground particular flights because of specific information we have got . "
but he said this did not mean there would be wholesale cancellation of flights .
on wednesday flight ba223 was held on the tarmac in the us capital while agents questioned passengers .
in a separate development on friday , ba cancelled flight 263 which had been due to leave for the saudi capital riyadh from london at 1330 gmt on saturday .
its return flight on sunday has also been cancelled .
ba also said it had cancelled a flight to riyadh on wednesday and its return flight on saturday , and was reviewing whether to fly there on monday .
the decisions on both the riyadh and washington flights are thought to have followed advice from the uk government , prompted by us intelligence .
passengers had been checking in for their trips to the us capital on friday when ba said the plane would not be taking off .
ba hoped to offer the 300 passengers alternative flights - but some were left feeling uneasy .
among them , deepa menon , 28 , a law student from washington dc , said : " i am irritated .
" i am sure there are reasons - but i do wish we had known what was going on earlier . "
and svenja steinfelder , 29 , a german research fellow studying in washington , said the scares had left her feeling " very nervous " about flying .
friday 's early evening ba flight to washington - the ba225 - took off 40 minutes later than its scheduled departure time of 1840 gmt after taking some of the passengers from the grounded ba223 .
later on friday it emerged home secretary david blunkett had held phone talks with us homeland security secretary tom ridge to discuss ways to minimise disruption on flights to the us .
america recently tightened security after intelligence warnings led its terror alert status to be raised to orange - the second highest level available .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's matt prodger " another day , another plane grounded " see also : plane knifeman arrested 02 jan 04 -pipe- beds / bucks / herts q & a : flight terror fears 02 jan 04 -pipe- uk q & a : ba passenger rights 02 jan 04 -pipe- business ba flight cancelled over security 02 jan 04 -pipe- americas us agents search ba aircraft 01 jan 04 -pipe- americas france ' confirms ' fighter escorts 02 jan 04 -pipe- europe air france resumes flights to la 26 dec 03 -pipe- americas related internet links : ba dulles airport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk stories china executes briton over drugs unemployment ' will peak at 2.8m ' met office warning of heavy snow products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 11,957 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- ' specific threat ' to ba flight home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 09:02 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version ' specific threat ' to ba flight security has been stepped up at heathrow british airways cancelled two flights to washington because of fears that a terrorist suspect was planning to board the aircraft , the bbc has learned .
the report has not been confirmed , but it is thought terrorists could have been planning to hijack the plane .
the ba223 flight from heathrow was grounded for the second day running on friday and hours later , ba said it had cancelled a flight to saudi arabia .
the airline is consulting ministers over saturday 's washington flight .
a british airways spokeswoman said the airline was still hoping to run the 1505 gmt service , and a decision on whether to fly would be made on saturday morning .
bbc security correspondent frank gardner said the washington flights on thursday and friday had been grounded because a terrorist suspect known to us authorities was believed to be trying to board it on both days , according to a source .
the suspect was thought to be attempting to hijack the aircraft and crash it into a target in washington , but he did not turn up at the airport , said the source .
stranded in a separate development , a source told the us network abc that someone outside the us had supplied information to american authorities about a plan to hijack flight 223 .
american security officials are trying to establish how reliable the information is .
the assistant director of the fbi in washington , michael mason , acknowledged the flights were being cancelled in response to a specific threat - what he described as coded talk .
flights hit by security fears christmas - six paris to los angeles flights cancelled wednesday - aeromexico flight from mexico city to los angeles cancelled wednesday - ba flight 223 shadowed by fighter jets , plane searched and passengers questioned thursday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled thursday - air france new york flight lands in canada for baggage check thursday - ba flight from washington delayed for extra security checks friday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled saturday - ba flight 263 from london to riyadh cancelled transport secretary alistair darling told bbc radio 4 's today programme tighter security may mean some inconvenience for air passengers .
" the threat that we are now facing is going to endure for many years , " he warned .
he said : " there may be a need to ground particular flights because of specific information we have got . "
but he said this did not mean there would be wholesale cancellation of flights .
on wednesday flight ba223 was held on the tarmac in the us capital while agents questioned passengers .
in a separate development on friday , ba cancelled flight 263 which had been due to leave for the saudi capital riyadh from london at 1330 gmt on saturday .
its return flight on sunday has also been cancelled .
ba also said it had cancelled a flight to riyadh on wednesday and its return flight on saturday , and was reviewing whether to fly there on monday .
the decisions on both the riyadh and washington flights are thought to have followed advice from the uk government , prompted by us intelligence .
passengers had been checking in for their trips to the us capital on friday when ba said the plane would not be taking off .
ba hoped to offer the 300 passengers alternative flights - but some were left feeling uneasy .
among them , deepa menon , 28 , a law student from washington dc , said : " i am irritated .
" i am sure there are reasons - but i do wish we had known what was going on earlier . "
and svenja steinfelder , 29 , a german research fellow studying in washington , said the scares had left her feeling " very nervous " about flying .
friday 's early evening ba flight to washington - the ba225 - took off 40 minutes later than its scheduled departure time of 1840 gmt after taking some of the passengers from the grounded ba223 .
later on friday it emerged home secretary david blunkett had held phone talks with us homeland security secretary tom ridge to discuss ways to minimise disruption on flights to the us .
america recently tightened security after intelligence warnings led its terror alert status to be raised to orange - the second highest level available .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's matt prodger " another day , another plane grounded " see also : plane knifeman arrested 02 jan 04 -pipe- beds / bucks / herts q & a : flight terror fears 02 jan 04 -pipe- uk q & a : ba passenger rights 02 jan 04 -pipe- business ba flight cancelled over security 02 jan 04 -pipe- americas us agents search ba aircraft 01 jan 04 -pipe- americas france ' confirms ' fighter escorts 02 jan 04 -pipe- europe air france resumes flights to la 26 dec 03 -pipe- americas related internet links : ba dulles airport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk stories talks on civil service redundancy school building plan faces cuts more police join gun suspect hunt products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 43,600 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- ' specific threat ' to ba flight home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 09:02 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version ' specific threat ' to ba flight security has been stepped up at heathrow british airways cancelled two flights to washington because of fears that a terrorist suspect was planning to board the aircraft , the bbc has learned .
the report has not been confirmed , but it is thought terrorists could have been planning to hijack the plane .
the ba223 flight from heathrow was grounded for the second day running on friday and hours later , ba said it had cancelled a flight to saudi arabia .
the airline is consulting ministers over saturday 's washington flight .
a british airways spokeswoman said the airline was still hoping to run the 1505 gmt service , and a decision on whether to fly would be made on saturday morning .
bbc security correspondent frank gardner said the washington flights on thursday and friday had been grounded because a terrorist suspect known to us authorities was believed to be trying to board it on both days , according to a source .
the suspect was thought to be attempting to hijack the aircraft and crash it into a target in washington , but he did not turn up at the airport , said the source .
stranded in a separate development , a source told the us network abc that someone outside the us had supplied information to american authorities about a plan to hijack flight 223 .
american security officials are trying to establish how reliable the information is .
the assistant director of the fbi in washington , michael mason , acknowledged the flights were being cancelled in response to a specific threat - what he described as coded talk .
flights hit by security fears christmas - six paris to los angeles flights cancelled wednesday - aeromexico flight from mexico city to los angeles cancelled wednesday - ba flight 223 shadowed by fighter jets , plane searched and passengers questioned thursday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled thursday - air france new york flight lands in canada for baggage check thursday - ba flight from washington delayed for extra security checks friday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled saturday - ba flight 263 from london to riyadh cancelled transport secretary alistair darling told bbc radio 4 's today programme tighter security may mean some inconvenience for air passengers .
" the threat that we are now facing is going to endure for many years , " he warned .
he said : " there may be a need to ground particular flights because of specific information we have got . "
but he said this did not mean there would be wholesale cancellation of flights .
on wednesday flight ba223 was held on the tarmac in the us capital while agents questioned passengers .
in a separate development on friday , ba cancelled flight 263 which had been due to leave for the saudi capital riyadh from london at 1330 gmt on saturday .
its return flight on sunday has also been cancelled .
ba also said it had cancelled a flight to riyadh on wednesday and its return flight on saturday , and was reviewing whether to fly there on monday .
the decisions on both the riyadh and washington flights are thought to have followed advice from the uk government , prompted by us intelligence .
passengers had been checking in for their trips to the us capital on friday when ba said the plane would not be taking off .
ba hoped to offer the 300 passengers alternative flights - but some were left feeling uneasy .
among them , deepa menon , 28 , a law student from washington dc , said : " i am irritated .
" i am sure there are reasons - but i do wish we had known what was going on earlier . "
and svenja steinfelder , 29 , a german research fellow studying in washington , said the scares had left her feeling " very nervous " about flying .
friday 's early evening ba flight to washington - the ba225 - took off 40 minutes later than its scheduled departure time of 1840 gmt after taking some of the passengers from the grounded ba223 .
later on friday it emerged home secretary david blunkett had held phone talks with us homeland security secretary tom ridge to discuss ways to minimise disruption on flights to the us .
america recently tightened security after intelligence warnings led its terror alert status to be raised to orange - the second highest level available .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's matt prodger " another day , another plane grounded " see also : plane knifeman arrested 02 jan 04 -pipe- beds / bucks / herts q & a : flight terror fears 02 jan 04 -pipe- uk q & a : ba passenger rights 02 jan 04 -pipe- business ba flight cancelled over security 02 jan 04 -pipe- americas us agents search ba aircraft 01 jan 04 -pipe- americas france ' confirms ' fighter escorts 02 jan 04 -pipe- europe air france resumes flights to la 26 dec 03 -pipe- americas related internet links : ba dulles airport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk stories major manhunt for afghan soldier unemployment dips to 2.47 million pm condemns sympathy for moat products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 14,271 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- ' specific threat ' to ba flight home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 09:02 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version ' specific threat ' to ba flight security has been stepped up at heathrow british airways cancelled two flights to washington because of fears that a terrorist suspect was planning to board the aircraft , the bbc has learned .
the report has not been confirmed , but it is thought terrorists could have been planning to hijack the plane .
the ba223 flight from heathrow was grounded for the second day running on friday and hours later , ba said it had cancelled a flight to saudi arabia .
the airline is consulting ministers over saturday 's washington flight .
a british airways spokeswoman said the airline was still hoping to run the 1505 gmt service , and a decision on whether to fly would be made on saturday morning .
bbc security correspondent frank gardner said the washington flights on thursday and friday had been grounded because a terrorist suspect known to us authorities was believed to be trying to board it on both days , according to a source .
the suspect was thought to be attempting to hijack the aircraft and crash it into a target in washington , but he did not turn up at the airport , said the source .
stranded in a separate development , a source told the us network abc that someone outside the us had supplied information to american authorities about a plan to hijack flight 223 .
american security officials are trying to establish how reliable the information is .
the assistant director of the fbi in washington , michael mason , acknowledged the flights were being cancelled in response to a specific threat - what he described as coded talk .
flights hit by security fears christmas - six paris to los angeles flights cancelled wednesday - aeromexico flight from mexico city to los angeles cancelled wednesday - ba flight 223 shadowed by fighter jets , plane searched and passengers questioned thursday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled thursday - air france new york flight lands in canada for baggage check thursday - ba flight from washington delayed for extra security checks friday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled saturday - ba flight 263 from london to riyadh cancelled transport secretary alistair darling told bbc radio 4 's today programme tighter security may mean some inconvenience for air passengers .
" the threat that we are now facing is going to endure for many years , " he warned .
he said : " there may be a need to ground particular flights because of specific information we have got . "
but he said this did not mean there would be wholesale cancellation of flights .
on wednesday flight ba223 was held on the tarmac in the us capital while agents questioned passengers .
in a separate development on friday , ba cancelled flight 263 which had been due to leave for the saudi capital riyadh from london at 1330 gmt on saturday .
its return flight on sunday has also been cancelled .
ba also said it had cancelled a flight to riyadh on wednesday and its return flight on saturday , and was reviewing whether to fly there on monday .
the decisions on both the riyadh and washington flights are thought to have followed advice from the uk government , prompted by us intelligence .
passengers had been checking in for their trips to the us capital on friday when ba said the plane would not be taking off .
ba hoped to offer the 300 passengers alternative flights - but some were left feeling uneasy .
among them , deepa menon , 28 , a law student from washington dc , said : " i am irritated .
" i am sure there are reasons - but i do wish we had known what was going on earlier . "
and svenja steinfelder , 29 , a german research fellow studying in washington , said the scares had left her feeling " very nervous " about flying .
friday 's early evening ba flight to washington - the ba225 - took off 40 minutes later than its scheduled departure time of 1840 gmt after taking some of the passengers from the grounded ba223 .
later on friday it emerged home secretary david blunkett had held phone talks with us homeland security secretary tom ridge to discuss ways to minimise disruption on flights to the us .
america recently tightened security after intelligence warnings led its terror alert status to be raised to orange - the second highest level available .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's matt prodger " another day , another plane grounded " see also : plane knifeman arrested 02 jan 04 -pipe- beds / bucks / herts q & a : flight terror fears 02 jan 04 -pipe- uk q & a : ba passenger rights 02 jan 04 -pipe- business ba flight cancelled over security 02 jan 04 -pipe- americas us agents search ba aircraft 01 jan 04 -pipe- americas france ' confirms ' fighter escorts 02 jan 04 -pipe- europe air france resumes flights to la 26 dec 03 -pipe- americas related internet links : ba dulles airport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk stories urgent tests on flood-hit bridges dissident republican attacks linked cameron planning emergency budget products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 28,200 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- ' specific threat ' to ba flight bbc news / uk graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 09:02 gmt ' specific threat ' to ba flight british airways cancelled two flights to washington because of fears that a terrorist suspect was planning to board the aircraft , the bbc has learned .
the report has not been confirmed , but it is thought terrorists could have been planning to hijack the plane .
the ba223 flight from heathrow was grounded for the second day running on friday and hours later , ba said it had cancelled a flight to saudi arabia .
the airline is consulting ministers over saturday 's washington flight .
a british airways spokeswoman said the airline was still hoping to run the 1505 gmt service , and a decision on whether to fly would be made on saturday morning .
bbc security correspondent frank gardner said the washington flights on thursday and friday had been grounded because a terrorist suspect known to us authorities was believed to be trying to board it on both days , according to a source .
the suspect was thought to be attempting to hijack the aircraft and crash it into a target in washington , but he did not turn up at the airport , said the source .
stranded in a separate development , a source told the us network abc that someone outside the us had supplied information to american authorities about a plan to hijack flight 223 .
american security officials are trying to establish how reliable the information is .
the assistant director of the fbi in washington , michael mason , acknowledged the flights were being cancelled in response to a specific threat - what he described as coded talk .
flights hit by security fears christmas - six paris to los angeles flights cancelled wednesday - aeromexico flight from mexico city to los angeles cancelled wednesday - ba flight 223 shadowed by fighter jets , plane searched and passengers questioned thursday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled thursday - air france new york flight lands in canada for baggage check thursday - ba flight from washington delayed for extra security checks friday - ba flight 223 from london to washington cancelled saturday - ba flight 263 from london to riyadh cancelled transport secretary alistair darling told bbc radio 4 's today programme tighter security may mean some inconvenience for air passengers .
" the threat that we are now facing is going to endure for many years , " he warned .
he said : " there may be a need to ground particular flights because of specific information we have got . "
but he said this did not mean there would be wholesale cancellation of flights .
on wednesday flight ba223 was held on the tarmac in the us capital while agents questioned passengers .
in a separate development on friday , ba cancelled flight 263 which had been due to leave for the saudi capital riyadh from london at 1330 gmt on saturday .
its return flight on sunday has also been cancelled .
ba also said it had cancelled a flight to riyadh on wednesday and its return flight on saturday , and was reviewing whether to fly there on monday .
the decisions on both the riyadh and washington flights are thought to have followed advice from the uk government , prompted by us intelligence .
passengers had been checking in for their trips to the us capital on friday when ba said the plane would not be taking off .
ba hoped to offer the 300 passengers alternative flights - but some were left feeling uneasy .
among them , deepa menon , 28 , a law student from washington dc , said : " i am irritated .
" i am sure there are reasons - but i do wish we had known what was going on earlier . "
and svenja steinfelder , 29 , a german research fellow studying in washington , said the scares had left her feeling " very nervous " about flying .
friday 's early evening ba flight to washington - the ba225 - took off 40 minutes later than its scheduled departure time of 1840 gmt after taking some of the passengers from the grounded ba223 .
later on friday it emerged home secretary david blunkett had held phone talks with us homeland security secretary tom ridge to discuss ways to minimise disruption on flights to the us .
america recently tightened security after intelligence warnings led its terror alert status to be raised to orange - the second highest level available .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : plane knifeman arrested -lrb- 02 jan 04 -pipe- beds / bucks / herts -rrb- q & a : flight terror fears -lrb- 02 jan 04 -pipe- uk -rrb- q & a : ba passenger rights -lrb- 02 jan 04 -pipe- business -rrb- ba flight cancelled over security -lrb- 02 jan 04 -pipe- americas -rrb- us agents search ba aircraft -lrb- 01 jan 04 -pipe- americas -rrb- france ' confirms ' fighter escorts -lrb- 02 jan 04 -pipe- europe -rrb- air france resumes flights to la -lrb- 26 dec 03 -pipe- americas -rrb- related internet links : ba dulles airport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- concerns over baby death report home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 09:57 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version concerns over baby death report caleb ness was killed in october 2001 scottish members of unison are calling for a public debate into " growing concerns " about a report into the death of a baby boy killed by his father .
the trade union 's edinburgh branch said the o 'brien report into the death of caleb ness was full of " contradictions , dubious conclusions and inaccuracies " .
it believes the report needs to be analysed more carefully before changes are made in child protection services .
branch secretary john stevenson said it was time for a " critical debate " .
he accused the labour leadership of edinburgh city council of being " too hasty " to accept all the recommendations contained within the report .
he said : " many people across the profession are beginning to raise concerns about this inquiry and the dangers of it being used to remodel child protection services . "
shaken to death the 260-page independent inquiry was undertaken by the edinburgh and lothians child protection committee under the chairmanship of susan o 'brien qc .
published formally in october 2003 , it detailed failings in the system following the death of baby caleb , who was subject to child protection orders .
caleb , from edinburgh , was 11 weeks old when his father alexander ness shook him so violently it caused fatal injuries in 2001 .
he was subsequently jailed for 11 years for culpable homicide .
the unison branch , which plans to hold a conference on the issue , criticised some of the report 's 35 recommendations and " lack of understanding of the law covering child protection " .
if the report is to be used as a benchmark for changing child protection services , we believe that would be quite dangerous practice john stevenson , unison mr stevenson also suggested that when politicians first made statements about the report , they had not been given ample time to read it .
he said : " the report was published first thing in the morning and by 1100 , the main politicians had made statements about it , when clearly they had not read it . "
he also criticised the report for having failed to call on former social work chief les mcewan to give evidence to the inquiry .
he said the report failed to take account of the lack of resources staff were having to contend with , and that they failed to appreciate the complicated legal processes which would have been necessary to remove caleb from his family .
' fundamental failings ' he said : " it is not a discredited inquiry , but it verges on sensationalism .
" we do think that some of the language was intemperate and some of the conclusions unwarranted .
" if the report is to be used as a benchmark for changing child protection services , we believe that would be quite dangerous practice . "
councillor donald anderson , leader of the city council , said : " the report did show some fundamental failings in the system and we need to put that right with appropriate structures and support .
" we will await further details of unison 's comments before responding further to their claims . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version see also : child protection summit called 13 nov 03 -pipe- scotland care reform plans speeded up 05 nov 03 -pipe- scotland baby death prompts action 14 oct 03 -pipe- scotland death sparks child protection review 09 oct 03 -pipe- scotland baby killer jailed for 11 years 12 mar 03 -pipe- scotland related internet links : edinburgh city council unison scotland the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories scots unemployment rate increases police name three road crash dead man tried to kill disabled wife products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmxi most popular now -pipe- 44,500 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- cornwall -pipe- prince 's plans take shape home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 10:11 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version prince 's plans take shape prince charles wants houses to be built of traditional materials plans for a new town to be built on duchy of cornwall land at britain 's surf capital are being prepared for public consultation .
more than 1,000 homes are to be built on the 250-acre site at newquay , along with a catholic primary school and a railway station , according to the proposals .
the duchy of cornwall , which owns half of the land , is in talks with 14 other landowners , the regional development agency and restormel borough council to decide details of the development .
a spokeswoman for the duchy of cornwall said a public consultation over the proposals , dubbed ' surfbury ' by locals , would be launched in march .
houses would be built using local materials and labour in the same way as the prince of wales 's model village poundbury in dorset .
affordable housing " we are wanting to use local products like granite and slate which we are likely to find in the area , " she said .
phil randall , strategic development officer at restormel borough council , said a planning application would follow the public consultation .
" we will be insisting on a very high proportion of affordable housing for the people of newquay and their children so the houses are not just bought by wealthy people from other parts of the country , " he said .
the area 's local plan states that 1,095 new homes will be built on the site .
building work is expected to start on the project next year .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc cornwall sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : prince 's ' surfbury ' plan welcomed 18 nov 03 -pipe- cornwall prince celebrates village anniversary 26 mar 03 -pipe- england ' cornish poundbury ' plan approved 15 jan 03 -pipe- england prince pulls premier pint 27 nov 02 -pipe- england related internet links : prince of wales restormel borough council the prince 's foundation devon & cornwall housing the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top cornwall stories missing woman link to fire death family tribute to cliff fall girl businesses warned of charity scam products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 17,557 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- cornwall -pipe- prince 's plans take shape home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 10:11 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version prince 's plans take shape prince charles wants houses to be built of traditional materials plans for a new town to be built on duchy of cornwall land at britain 's surf capital are being prepared for public consultation .
more than 1,000 homes are to be built on the 250-acre site at newquay , along with a catholic primary school and a railway station , according to the proposals .
the duchy of cornwall , which owns half of the land , is in talks with 14 other landowners , the regional development agency and restormel borough council to decide details of the development .
a spokeswoman for the duchy of cornwall said a public consultation over the proposals , dubbed ' surfbury ' by locals , would be launched in march .
houses would be built using local materials and labour in the same way as the prince of wales 's model village poundbury in dorset .
affordable housing " we are wanting to use local products like granite and slate which we are likely to find in the area , " she said .
phil randall , strategic development officer at restormel borough council , said a planning application would follow the public consultation .
" we will be insisting on a very high proportion of affordable housing for the people of newquay and their children so the houses are not just bought by wealthy people from other parts of the country , " he said .
the area 's local plan states that 1,095 new homes will be built on the site .
building work is expected to start on the project next year .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc cornwall sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : prince 's ' surfbury ' plan welcomed 18 nov 03 -pipe- cornwall prince celebrates village anniversary 26 mar 03 -pipe- england ' cornish poundbury ' plan approved 15 jan 03 -pipe- england prince pulls premier pint 27 nov 02 -pipe- england related internet links : prince of wales restormel borough council the prince 's foundation devon & cornwall housing the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top cornwall stories snow warning as temperatures dive animals affected by cold weather staff return as school is saved products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 21,843 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- cornwall -pipe- prince 's plans take shape home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 10:11 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version prince 's plans take shape prince charles wants houses to be built of traditional materials plans for a new town to be built on duchy of cornwall land at britain 's surf capital are being prepared for public consultation .
more than 1,000 homes are to be built on the 250-acre site at newquay , along with a catholic primary school and a railway station , according to the proposals .
the duchy of cornwall , which owns half of the land , is in talks with 14 other landowners , the regional development agency and restormel borough council to decide details of the development .
a spokeswoman for the duchy of cornwall said a public consultation over the proposals , dubbed ' surfbury ' by locals , would be launched in march .
houses would be built using local materials and labour in the same way as the prince of wales 's model village poundbury in dorset .
affordable housing " we are wanting to use local products like granite and slate which we are likely to find in the area , " she said .
phil randall , strategic development officer at restormel borough council , said a planning application would follow the public consultation .
" we will be insisting on a very high proportion of affordable housing for the people of newquay and their children so the houses are not just bought by wealthy people from other parts of the country , " he said .
the area 's local plan states that 1,095 new homes will be built on the site .
building work is expected to start on the project next year .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc cornwall sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : prince 's ' surfbury ' plan welcomed 18 nov 03 -pipe- cornwall prince celebrates village anniversary 26 mar 03 -pipe- england ' cornish poundbury ' plan approved 15 jan 03 -pipe- england prince pulls premier pint 27 nov 02 -pipe- england related internet links : prince of wales restormel borough council the prince 's foundation devon & cornwall housing the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top cornwall stories wife fears for oil worker husband driver jailed for festival death support cuts ' could save ' police products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 16,029 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- cornwall -pipe- prince 's plans take shape home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 10:11 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version prince 's plans take shape prince charles wants houses to be built of traditional materials plans for a new town to be built on duchy of cornwall land at britain 's surf capital are being prepared for public consultation .
more than 1,000 homes are to be built on the 250-acre site at newquay , along with a catholic primary school and a railway station , according to the proposals .
the duchy of cornwall , which owns half of the land , is in talks with 14 other landowners , the regional development agency and restormel borough council to decide details of the development .
a spokeswoman for the duchy of cornwall said a public consultation over the proposals , dubbed ' surfbury ' by locals , would be launched in march .
houses would be built using local materials and labour in the same way as the prince of wales 's model village poundbury in dorset .
affordable housing " we are wanting to use local products like granite and slate which we are likely to find in the area , " she said .
phil randall , strategic development officer at restormel borough council , said a planning application would follow the public consultation .
" we will be insisting on a very high proportion of affordable housing for the people of newquay and their children so the houses are not just bought by wealthy people from other parts of the country , " he said .
the area 's local plan states that 1,095 new homes will be built on the site .
building work is expected to start on the project next year .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc cornwall sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : prince 's ' surfbury ' plan welcomed 18 nov 03 -pipe- cornwall prince celebrates village anniversary 26 mar 03 -pipe- england ' cornish poundbury ' plan approved 15 jan 03 -pipe- england prince pulls premier pint 27 nov 02 -pipe- england related internet links : prince of wales restormel borough council the prince 's foundation devon & cornwall housing the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top cornwall stories wife fears for oil worker husband driver jailed for festival death support cuts ' could save ' police products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 18,757 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- cornwall -pipe- prince 's plans take shape home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 10:11 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version prince 's plans take shape prince charles wants houses to be built of traditional materials plans for a new town to be built on duchy of cornwall land at britain 's surf capital are being prepared for public consultation .
more than 1,000 homes are to be built on the 250-acre site at newquay , along with a catholic primary school and a railway station , according to the proposals .
the duchy of cornwall , which owns half of the land , is in talks with 14 other landowners , the regional development agency and restormel borough council to decide details of the development .
a spokeswoman for the duchy of cornwall said a public consultation over the proposals , dubbed ' surfbury ' by locals , would be launched in march .
houses would be built using local materials and labour in the same way as the prince of wales 's model village poundbury in dorset .
affordable housing " we are wanting to use local products like granite and slate which we are likely to find in the area , " she said .
phil randall , strategic development officer at restormel borough council , said a planning application would follow the public consultation .
" we will be insisting on a very high proportion of affordable housing for the people of newquay and their children so the houses are not just bought by wealthy people from other parts of the country , " he said .
the area 's local plan states that 1,095 new homes will be built on the site .
building work is expected to start on the project next year .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc cornwall sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : prince 's ' surfbury ' plan welcomed 18 nov 03 -pipe- cornwall prince celebrates village anniversary 26 mar 03 -pipe- england ' cornish poundbury ' plan approved 15 jan 03 -pipe- england prince pulls premier pint 27 nov 02 -pipe- england related internet links : prince of wales restormel borough council the prince 's foundation devon & cornwall housing the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top cornwall stories wife fears for oil worker husband driver jailed for festival death support cuts ' could save ' police products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 26,543 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- cornwall -pipe- prince 's plans take shape home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 10:11 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version prince 's plans take shape prince charles wants houses to be built of traditional materials plans for a new town to be built on duchy of cornwall land at britain 's surf capital are being prepared for public consultation .
more than 1,000 homes are to be built on the 250-acre site at newquay , along with a catholic primary school and a railway station , according to the proposals .
the duchy of cornwall , which owns half of the land , is in talks with 14 other landowners , the regional development agency and restormel borough council to decide details of the development .
a spokeswoman for the duchy of cornwall said a public consultation over the proposals , dubbed ' surfbury ' by locals , would be launched in march .
houses would be built using local materials and labour in the same way as the prince of wales 's model village poundbury in dorset .
affordable housing " we are wanting to use local products like granite and slate which we are likely to find in the area , " she said .
phil randall , strategic development officer at restormel borough council , said a planning application would follow the public consultation .
" we will be insisting on a very high proportion of affordable housing for the people of newquay and their children so the houses are not just bought by wealthy people from other parts of the country , " he said .
the area 's local plan states that 1,095 new homes will be built on the site .
building work is expected to start on the project next year .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc cornwall sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : prince 's ' surfbury ' plan welcomed 18 nov 03 -pipe- cornwall prince celebrates village anniversary 26 mar 03 -pipe- england ' cornish poundbury ' plan approved 15 jan 03 -pipe- england prince pulls premier pint 27 nov 02 -pipe- england related internet links : prince of wales restormel borough council the prince 's foundation devon & cornwall housing the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top cornwall stories body found after suspicious fire family tribute to cliff fall girl businesses warned of charity scam products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 16,586 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- cornwall -pipe- prince 's plans take shape home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 10:11 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version prince 's plans take shape prince charles wants houses to be built of traditional materials plans for a new town to be built on duchy of cornwall land at britain 's surf capital are being prepared for public consultation .
more than 1,000 homes are to be built on the 250-acre site at newquay , along with a catholic primary school and a railway station , according to the proposals .
the duchy of cornwall , which owns half of the land , is in talks with 14 other landowners , the regional development agency and restormel borough council to decide details of the development .
a spokeswoman for the duchy of cornwall said a public consultation over the proposals , dubbed ' surfbury ' by locals , would be launched in march .
houses would be built using local materials and labour in the same way as the prince of wales 's model village poundbury in dorset .
affordable housing " we are wanting to use local products like granite and slate which we are likely to find in the area , " she said .
phil randall , strategic development officer at restormel borough council , said a planning application would follow the public consultation .
" we will be insisting on a very high proportion of affordable housing for the people of newquay and their children so the houses are not just bought by wealthy people from other parts of the country , " he said .
the area 's local plan states that 1,095 new homes will be built on the site .
building work is expected to start on the project next year .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc cornwall sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : prince 's ' surfbury ' plan welcomed 18 nov 03 -pipe- cornwall prince celebrates village anniversary 26 mar 03 -pipe- england ' cornish poundbury ' plan approved 15 jan 03 -pipe- england prince pulls premier pint 27 nov 02 -pipe- england related internet links : prince of wales restormel borough council the prince 's foundation devon & cornwall housing the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top cornwall stories missing woman link to fire death dead whale seen floating in water trees start to ' talk ' at cotehele products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 10,571 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- cornwall -pipe- prince 's plans take shape home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 10:11 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version prince 's plans take shape prince charles wants houses to be built of traditional materials plans for a new town to be built on duchy of cornwall land at britain 's surf capital are being prepared for public consultation .
more than 1,000 homes are to be built on the 250-acre site at newquay , along with a catholic primary school and a railway station , according to the proposals .
the duchy of cornwall , which owns half of the land , is in talks with 14 other landowners , the regional development agency and restormel borough council to decide details of the development .
a spokeswoman for the duchy of cornwall said a public consultation over the proposals , dubbed ' surfbury ' by locals , would be launched in march .
houses would be built using local materials and labour in the same way as the prince of wales 's model village poundbury in dorset .
affordable housing " we are wanting to use local products like granite and slate which we are likely to find in the area , " she said .
phil randall , strategic development officer at restormel borough council , said a planning application would follow the public consultation .
" we will be insisting on a very high proportion of affordable housing for the people of newquay and their children so the houses are not just bought by wealthy people from other parts of the country , " he said .
the area 's local plan states that 1,095 new homes will be built on the site .
building work is expected to start on the project next year .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc cornwall sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : prince 's ' surfbury ' plan welcomed 18 nov 03 -pipe- cornwall prince celebrates village anniversary 26 mar 03 -pipe- england ' cornish poundbury ' plan approved 15 jan 03 -pipe- england prince pulls premier pint 27 nov 02 -pipe- england related internet links : prince of wales restormel borough council the prince 's foundation devon & cornwall housing the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top cornwall stories wave energy cable near to shore girl , 11 , dies after cliff fall plan to restart old cornish mine products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 5,943 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- cornwall -pipe- prince 's plans take shape home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 10:11 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version prince 's plans take shape prince charles wants houses to be built of traditional materials plans for a new town to be built on duchy of cornwall land at britain 's surf capital are being prepared for public consultation .
more than 1,000 homes are to be built on the 250-acre site at newquay , along with a catholic primary school and a railway station , according to the proposals .
the duchy of cornwall , which owns half of the land , is in talks with 14 other landowners , the regional development agency and restormel borough council to decide details of the development .
a spokeswoman for the duchy of cornwall said a public consultation over the proposals , dubbed ' surfbury ' by locals , would be launched in march .
houses would be built using local materials and labour in the same way as the prince of wales 's model village poundbury in dorset .
affordable housing " we are wanting to use local products like granite and slate which we are likely to find in the area , " she said .
phil randall , strategic development officer at restormel borough council , said a planning application would follow the public consultation .
" we will be insisting on a very high proportion of affordable housing for the people of newquay and their children so the houses are not just bought by wealthy people from other parts of the country , " he said .
the area 's local plan states that 1,095 new homes will be built on the site .
building work is expected to start on the project next year .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc cornwall sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : prince 's ' surfbury ' plan welcomed 18 nov 03 -pipe- cornwall prince celebrates village anniversary 26 mar 03 -pipe- england ' cornish poundbury ' plan approved 15 jan 03 -pipe- england prince pulls premier pint 27 nov 02 -pipe- england related internet links : prince of wales restormel borough council the prince 's foundation devon & cornwall housing the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top cornwall stories shop fire in busy holiday resort wave energy cable near to shore girl , 11 , dies after cliff fall products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 33,900 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- cornwall -pipe- prince 's plans take shape home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales education magazine uk election business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 10:11 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version prince 's plans take shape prince charles wants houses to be built of traditional materials plans for a new town to be built on duchy of cornwall land at britain 's surf capital are being prepared for public consultation .
more than 1,000 homes are to be built on the 250-acre site at newquay , along with a catholic primary school and a railway station , according to the proposals .
the duchy of cornwall , which owns half of the land , is in talks with 14 other landowners , the regional development agency and restormel borough council to decide details of the development .
a spokeswoman for the duchy of cornwall said a public consultation over the proposals , dubbed ' surfbury ' by locals , would be launched in march .
houses would be built using local materials and labour in the same way as the prince of wales 's model village poundbury in dorset .
affordable housing " we are wanting to use local products like granite and slate which we are likely to find in the area , " she said .
phil randall , strategic development officer at restormel borough council , said a planning application would follow the public consultation .
" we will be insisting on a very high proportion of affordable housing for the people of newquay and their children so the houses are not just bought by wealthy people from other parts of the country , " he said .
the area 's local plan states that 1,095 new homes will be built on the site .
building work is expected to start on the project next year .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc cornwall sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : prince 's ' surfbury ' plan welcomed 18 nov 03 -pipe- cornwall prince celebrates village anniversary 26 mar 03 -pipe- england ' cornish poundbury ' plan approved 15 jan 03 -pipe- england prince pulls premier pint 27 nov 02 -pipe- england related internet links : prince of wales restormel borough council the prince 's foundation devon & cornwall housing the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top cornwall stories stag party rescue after lift fall crowds celebrate may day obby oss us navy asked to share sub detail products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 32,914 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- cornwall -pipe- prince 's plans take shape home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 10:11 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version prince 's plans take shape prince charles wants houses to be built of traditional materials plans for a new town to be built on duchy of cornwall land at britain 's surf capital are being prepared for public consultation .
more than 1,000 homes are to be built on the 250-acre site at newquay , along with a catholic primary school and a railway station , according to the proposals .
the duchy of cornwall , which owns half of the land , is in talks with 14 other landowners , the regional development agency and restormel borough council to decide details of the development .
a spokeswoman for the duchy of cornwall said a public consultation over the proposals , dubbed ' surfbury ' by locals , would be launched in march .
houses would be built using local materials and labour in the same way as the prince of wales 's model village poundbury in dorset .
affordable housing " we are wanting to use local products like granite and slate which we are likely to find in the area , " she said .
phil randall , strategic development officer at restormel borough council , said a planning application would follow the public consultation .
" we will be insisting on a very high proportion of affordable housing for the people of newquay and their children so the houses are not just bought by wealthy people from other parts of the country , " he said .
the area 's local plan states that 1,095 new homes will be built on the site .
building work is expected to start on the project next year .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bbc cornwall sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also : prince 's ' surfbury ' plan welcomed 18 nov 03 -pipe- cornwall prince celebrates village anniversary 26 mar 03 -pipe- england ' cornish poundbury ' plan approved 15 jan 03 -pipe- england prince pulls premier pint 27 nov 02 -pipe- england related internet links : prince of wales restormel borough council the prince 's foundation devon & cornwall housing the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top cornwall stories girl , 11 , dies after cliff fall hopes high on wave energy attempt ' top gear copy-cat ' in car attack products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 27,786 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- politics -pipe- tory leader defends beliefs list home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 11:19 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version tory leader defends beliefs list mr howard said the beliefs had propelled him into politics conservative leader michael howard has told the bbc why he published his list of core political beliefs .
he said he wanted to dispel the idea politicians were obsessed with being negative about their opponents .
mr howard said many people were uncertain about the difference between the parties .
and he said his beliefs were " entirely in tune with conservative principles and with what most of the british people want " .
personal statement speaking on bbc radio 4 's today programme , mr howard denied copying those 15 " beliefs " from a 1941 personal declaration by john d rockefeller .
the guardian and the mirror had claimed the conservative leader stole his statement published in friday 's times from a personal declaration by the american philanthropist .
the daily telegraph meanwhile had criticised mr howard 's grammar in the statement which will now be sent to 100,000 tory party members .
the conservative leader said : " i am afraid the responsibility for what we put out yesterday , grammatical errors and all , is entirely mine . "
among the " beliefs " he cited were that it was natural for people to want wealth , health and happiness , that people need protecting from bureaucracy and that parents want a better education for their children than the one they had .
on today mr howard was asked to explain his statement that one person 's ignorance was not caused by another 's education .
mr howard replied : " we should not be worried by the fact that as people move towards higher standards this will not happen at the same pace everywhere and for everyone . "
tuition fees he also said he had " grave reservations " about university tuition fees .
" i believe they would deter people from less well off families from going to university " .
he said his party was reviewing its stance on the subject and would put the proposals to the public in a manifesto .
mr howard was also asked about today 's listeners ' poll which asked people to vote for ideas for new legislation .
the poll results suggested many would like to see legislation giving householders greater rights to defend themselves against intruders .
mr howard said : " i think there is a widespread view that the present law is unsatisfactory and that it should be looked at to see to what extent there is scope for review here . "
deputy prime minister john prescott said mr howard should be judged by his record and not his dreams .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's reeta chakrabarti " michael howard said he wanted to do something more positive than just attacking labour " see also : tory leader 's ' i believe ' pledge 02 jan 04 -pipe- politics howard attacks whitehall red tape 17 dec 03 -pipe- politics michael howard 's new year message 02 dec 03 -pipe- politics howard ' sorry ' for poll tax 07 dec 03 -pipe- scotland related internet links : conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories mandelson moves on budget deficit mps call for ' 70m population cap ' mps warned over expenses overhaul products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 31,843 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- politics -pipe- tory leader defends beliefs list home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales education magazine uk election business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 11:19 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version tory leader defends beliefs list mr howard said the beliefs had propelled him into politics conservative leader michael howard has told the bbc why he published his list of core political beliefs .
he said he wanted to dispel the idea politicians were obsessed with being negative about their opponents .
mr howard said many people were uncertain about the difference between the parties .
and he said his beliefs were " entirely in tune with conservative principles and with what most of the british people want " .
personal statement speaking on bbc radio 4 's today programme , mr howard denied copying those 15 " beliefs " from a 1941 personal declaration by john d rockefeller .
the guardian and the mirror had claimed the conservative leader stole his statement published in friday 's times from a personal declaration by the american philanthropist .
the daily telegraph meanwhile had criticised mr howard 's grammar in the statement which will now be sent to 100,000 tory party members .
the conservative leader said : " i am afraid the responsibility for what we put out yesterday , grammatical errors and all , is entirely mine . "
among the " beliefs " he cited were that it was natural for people to want wealth , health and happiness , that people need protecting from bureaucracy and that parents want a better education for their children than the one they had .
on today mr howard was asked to explain his statement that one person 's ignorance was not caused by another 's education .
mr howard replied : " we should not be worried by the fact that as people move towards higher standards this will not happen at the same pace everywhere and for everyone . "
tuition fees he also said he had " grave reservations " about university tuition fees .
" i believe they would deter people from less well off families from going to university " .
he said his party was reviewing its stance on the subject and would put the proposals to the public in a manifesto .
mr howard was also asked about today 's listeners ' poll which asked people to vote for ideas for new legislation .
the poll results suggested many would like to see legislation giving householders greater rights to defend themselves against intruders .
mr howard said : " i think there is a widespread view that the present law is unsatisfactory and that it should be looked at to see to what extent there is scope for review here . "
deputy prime minister john prescott said mr howard should be judged by his record and not his dreams .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's reeta chakrabarti " michael howard said he wanted to do something more positive than just attacking labour " see also : tory leader 's ' i believe ' pledge 02 jan 04 -pipe- politics howard attacks whitehall red tape 17 dec 03 -pipe- politics michael howard 's new year message 02 dec 03 -pipe- politics howard ' sorry ' for poll tax 07 dec 03 -pipe- scotland related internet links : conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories url link tories outline £ 12bn saving plans as it happened : 6 april -lrb- part one -rrb- products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 29,000 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- politics -pipe- tory leader defends beliefs list home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 11:19 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version tory leader defends beliefs list mr howard said the beliefs had propelled him into politics conservative leader michael howard has told the bbc why he published his list of core political beliefs .
he said he wanted to dispel the idea politicians were obsessed with being negative about their opponents .
mr howard said many people were uncertain about the difference between the parties .
and he said his beliefs were " entirely in tune with conservative principles and with what most of the british people want " .
personal statement speaking on bbc radio 4 's today programme , mr howard denied copying those 15 " beliefs " from a 1941 personal declaration by john d rockefeller .
the guardian and the mirror had claimed the conservative leader stole his statement published in friday 's times from a personal declaration by the american philanthropist .
the daily telegraph meanwhile had criticised mr howard 's grammar in the statement which will now be sent to 100,000 tory party members .
the conservative leader said : " i am afraid the responsibility for what we put out yesterday , grammatical errors and all , is entirely mine . "
among the " beliefs " he cited were that it was natural for people to want wealth , health and happiness , that people need protecting from bureaucracy and that parents want a better education for their children than the one they had .
on today mr howard was asked to explain his statement that one person 's ignorance was not caused by another 's education .
mr howard replied : " we should not be worried by the fact that as people move towards higher standards this will not happen at the same pace everywhere and for everyone . "
tuition fees he also said he had " grave reservations " about university tuition fees .
" i believe they would deter people from less well off families from going to university " .
he said his party was reviewing its stance on the subject and would put the proposals to the public in a manifesto .
mr howard was also asked about today 's listeners ' poll which asked people to vote for ideas for new legislation .
the poll results suggested many would like to see legislation giving householders greater rights to defend themselves against intruders .
mr howard said : " i think there is a widespread view that the present law is unsatisfactory and that it should be looked at to see to what extent there is scope for review here . "
deputy prime minister john prescott said mr howard should be judged by his record and not his dreams .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's reeta chakrabarti " michael howard said he wanted to do something more positive than just attacking labour " see also : tory leader 's ' i believe ' pledge 02 jan 04 -pipe- politics howard attacks whitehall red tape 17 dec 03 -pipe- politics michael howard 's new year message 02 dec 03 -pipe- politics howard ' sorry ' for poll tax 07 dec 03 -pipe- scotland related internet links : conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories prison ' not linked ' to crime drop whitehall ' supported guantanamo ' government wins vat commons votes products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmxi most popular now -pipe- 32,914 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- politics -pipe- tory leader defends beliefs list home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 11:19 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version tory leader defends beliefs list mr howard said the beliefs had propelled him into politics conservative leader michael howard has told the bbc why he published his list of core political beliefs .
he said he wanted to dispel the idea politicians were obsessed with being negative about their opponents .
mr howard said many people were uncertain about the difference between the parties .
and he said his beliefs were " entirely in tune with conservative principles and with what most of the british people want " .
personal statement speaking on bbc radio 4 's today programme , mr howard denied copying those 15 " beliefs " from a 1941 personal declaration by john d rockefeller .
the guardian and the mirror had claimed the conservative leader stole his statement published in friday 's times from a personal declaration by the american philanthropist .
the daily telegraph meanwhile had criticised mr howard 's grammar in the statement which will now be sent to 100,000 tory party members .
the conservative leader said : " i am afraid the responsibility for what we put out yesterday , grammatical errors and all , is entirely mine . "
among the " beliefs " he cited were that it was natural for people to want wealth , health and happiness , that people need protecting from bureaucracy and that parents want a better education for their children than the one they had .
on today mr howard was asked to explain his statement that one person 's ignorance was not caused by another 's education .
mr howard replied : " we should not be worried by the fact that as people move towards higher standards this will not happen at the same pace everywhere and for everyone . "
tuition fees he also said he had " grave reservations " about university tuition fees .
" i believe they would deter people from less well off families from going to university " .
he said his party was reviewing its stance on the subject and would put the proposals to the public in a manifesto .
mr howard was also asked about today 's listeners ' poll which asked people to vote for ideas for new legislation .
the poll results suggested many would like to see legislation giving householders greater rights to defend themselves against intruders .
mr howard said : " i think there is a widespread view that the present law is unsatisfactory and that it should be looked at to see to what extent there is scope for review here . "
deputy prime minister john prescott said mr howard should be judged by his record and not his dreams .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's reeta chakrabarti " michael howard said he wanted to do something more positive than just attacking labour " see also : tory leader 's ' i believe ' pledge 02 jan 04 -pipe- politics howard attacks whitehall red tape 17 dec 03 -pipe- politics michael howard 's new year message 02 dec 03 -pipe- politics howard ' sorry ' for poll tax 07 dec 03 -pipe- scotland related internet links : conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories prison ' not linked ' to crime drop whitehall ' supported guantanamo ' government wins vat commons votes products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 31,214 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- politics -pipe- tory leader defends beliefs list home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 11:19 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version tory leader defends beliefs list mr howard said the beliefs had propelled him into politics conservative leader michael howard has told the bbc why he published his list of core political beliefs .
he said he wanted to dispel the idea politicians were obsessed with being negative about their opponents .
mr howard said many people were uncertain about the difference between the parties .
and he said his beliefs were " entirely in tune with conservative principles and with what most of the british people want " .
personal statement speaking on bbc radio 4 's today programme , mr howard denied copying those 15 " beliefs " from a 1941 personal declaration by john d rockefeller .
the guardian and the mirror had claimed the conservative leader stole his statement published in friday 's times from a personal declaration by the american philanthropist .
the daily telegraph meanwhile had criticised mr howard 's grammar in the statement which will now be sent to 100,000 tory party members .
the conservative leader said : " i am afraid the responsibility for what we put out yesterday , grammatical errors and all , is entirely mine . "
among the " beliefs " he cited were that it was natural for people to want wealth , health and happiness , that people need protecting from bureaucracy and that parents want a better education for their children than the one they had .
on today mr howard was asked to explain his statement that one person 's ignorance was not caused by another 's education .
mr howard replied : " we should not be worried by the fact that as people move towards higher standards this will not happen at the same pace everywhere and for everyone . "
tuition fees he also said he had " grave reservations " about university tuition fees .
" i believe they would deter people from less well off families from going to university " .
he said his party was reviewing its stance on the subject and would put the proposals to the public in a manifesto .
mr howard was also asked about today 's listeners ' poll which asked people to vote for ideas for new legislation .
the poll results suggested many would like to see legislation giving householders greater rights to defend themselves against intruders .
mr howard said : " i think there is a widespread view that the present law is unsatisfactory and that it should be looked at to see to what extent there is scope for review here . "
deputy prime minister john prescott said mr howard should be judged by his record and not his dreams .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's reeta chakrabarti " michael howard said he wanted to do something more positive than just attacking labour " see also : tory leader 's ' i believe ' pledge 02 jan 04 -pipe- politics howard attacks whitehall red tape 17 dec 03 -pipe- politics michael howard 's new year message 02 dec 03 -pipe- politics howard ' sorry ' for poll tax 07 dec 03 -pipe- scotland related internet links : conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories brown ' not warned over bullying ' pm to face iraq inquiry next week prisoner release scheme is halted products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 4,786 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- politics -pipe- tory leader defends beliefs list home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 11:19 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version tory leader defends beliefs list mr howard said the beliefs had propelled him into politics conservative leader michael howard has told the bbc why he published his list of core political beliefs .
he said he wanted to dispel the idea politicians were obsessed with being negative about their opponents .
mr howard said many people were uncertain about the difference between the parties .
and he said his beliefs were " entirely in tune with conservative principles and with what most of the british people want " .
personal statement speaking on bbc radio 4 's today programme , mr howard denied copying those 15 " beliefs " from a 1941 personal declaration by john d rockefeller .
the guardian and the mirror had claimed the conservative leader stole his statement published in friday 's times from a personal declaration by the american philanthropist .
the daily telegraph meanwhile had criticised mr howard 's grammar in the statement which will now be sent to 100,000 tory party members .
the conservative leader said : " i am afraid the responsibility for what we put out yesterday , grammatical errors and all , is entirely mine . "
among the " beliefs " he cited were that it was natural for people to want wealth , health and happiness , that people need protecting from bureaucracy and that parents want a better education for their children than the one they had .
on today mr howard was asked to explain his statement that one person 's ignorance was not caused by another 's education .
mr howard replied : " we should not be worried by the fact that as people move towards higher standards this will not happen at the same pace everywhere and for everyone . "
tuition fees he also said he had " grave reservations " about university tuition fees .
" i believe they would deter people from less well off families from going to university " .
he said his party was reviewing its stance on the subject and would put the proposals to the public in a manifesto .
mr howard was also asked about today 's listeners ' poll which asked people to vote for ideas for new legislation .
the poll results suggested many would like to see legislation giving householders greater rights to defend themselves against intruders .
mr howard said : " i think there is a widespread view that the present law is unsatisfactory and that it should be looked at to see to what extent there is scope for review here . "
deputy prime minister john prescott said mr howard should be judged by his record and not his dreams .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's reeta chakrabarti " michael howard said he wanted to do something more positive than just attacking labour " see also : tory leader 's ' i believe ' pledge 02 jan 04 -pipe- politics howard attacks whitehall red tape 17 dec 03 -pipe- politics michael howard 's new year message 02 dec 03 -pipe- politics howard ' sorry ' for poll tax 07 dec 03 -pipe- scotland related internet links : conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories prison ' not linked ' to crime drop whitehall ' supported guantanamo ' government wins vat commons votes products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 19,886 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- politics -pipe- tory leader defends beliefs list home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 11:19 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version tory leader defends beliefs list mr howard said the beliefs had propelled him into politics conservative leader michael howard has told the bbc why he published his list of core political beliefs .
he said he wanted to dispel the idea politicians were obsessed with being negative about their opponents .
mr howard said many people were uncertain about the difference between the parties .
and he said his beliefs were " entirely in tune with conservative principles and with what most of the british people want " .
personal statement speaking on bbc radio 4 's today programme , mr howard denied copying those 15 " beliefs " from a 1941 personal declaration by john d rockefeller .
the guardian and the mirror had claimed the conservative leader stole his statement published in friday 's times from a personal declaration by the american philanthropist .
the daily telegraph meanwhile had criticised mr howard 's grammar in the statement which will now be sent to 100,000 tory party members .
the conservative leader said : " i am afraid the responsibility for what we put out yesterday , grammatical errors and all , is entirely mine . "
among the " beliefs " he cited were that it was natural for people to want wealth , health and happiness , that people need protecting from bureaucracy and that parents want a better education for their children than the one they had .
on today mr howard was asked to explain his statement that one person 's ignorance was not caused by another 's education .
mr howard replied : " we should not be worried by the fact that as people move towards higher standards this will not happen at the same pace everywhere and for everyone . "
tuition fees he also said he had " grave reservations " about university tuition fees .
" i believe they would deter people from less well off families from going to university " .
he said his party was reviewing its stance on the subject and would put the proposals to the public in a manifesto .
mr howard was also asked about today 's listeners ' poll which asked people to vote for ideas for new legislation .
the poll results suggested many would like to see legislation giving householders greater rights to defend themselves against intruders .
mr howard said : " i think there is a widespread view that the present law is unsatisfactory and that it should be looked at to see to what extent there is scope for review here . "
deputy prime minister john prescott said mr howard should be judged by his record and not his dreams .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's reeta chakrabarti " michael howard said he wanted to do something more positive than just attacking labour " see also : tory leader 's ' i believe ' pledge 02 jan 04 -pipe- politics howard attacks whitehall red tape 17 dec 03 -pipe- politics michael howard 's new year message 02 dec 03 -pipe- politics howard ' sorry ' for poll tax 07 dec 03 -pipe- scotland related internet links : conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories prison ' not linked ' to crime drop whitehall ' supported guantanamo ' government wins vat commons votes products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 53,771 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- politics -pipe- tory leader defends beliefs list home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 11:19 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version tory leader defends beliefs list mr howard said the beliefs had propelled him into politics conservative leader michael howard has told the bbc why he published his list of core political beliefs .
he said he wanted to dispel the idea politicians were obsessed with being negative about their opponents .
mr howard said many people were uncertain about the difference between the parties .
and he said his beliefs were " entirely in tune with conservative principles and with what most of the british people want " .
personal statement speaking on bbc radio 4 's today programme , mr howard denied copying those 15 " beliefs " from a 1941 personal declaration by john d rockefeller .
the guardian and the mirror had claimed the conservative leader stole his statement published in friday 's times from a personal declaration by the american philanthropist .
the daily telegraph meanwhile had criticised mr howard 's grammar in the statement which will now be sent to 100,000 tory party members .
the conservative leader said : " i am afraid the responsibility for what we put out yesterday , grammatical errors and all , is entirely mine . "
among the " beliefs " he cited were that it was natural for people to want wealth , health and happiness , that people need protecting from bureaucracy and that parents want a better education for their children than the one they had .
on today mr howard was asked to explain his statement that one person 's ignorance was not caused by another 's education .
mr howard replied : " we should not be worried by the fact that as people move towards higher standards this will not happen at the same pace everywhere and for everyone . "
tuition fees he also said he had " grave reservations " about university tuition fees .
" i believe they would deter people from less well off families from going to university " .
he said his party was reviewing its stance on the subject and would put the proposals to the public in a manifesto .
mr howard was also asked about today 's listeners ' poll which asked people to vote for ideas for new legislation .
the poll results suggested many would like to see legislation giving householders greater rights to defend themselves against intruders .
mr howard said : " i think there is a widespread view that the present law is unsatisfactory and that it should be looked at to see to what extent there is scope for review here . "
deputy prime minister john prescott said mr howard should be judged by his record and not his dreams .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's reeta chakrabarti " michael howard said he wanted to do something more positive than just attacking labour " see also : tory leader 's ' i believe ' pledge 02 jan 04 -pipe- politics howard attacks whitehall red tape 17 dec 03 -pipe- politics michael howard 's new year message 02 dec 03 -pipe- politics howard ' sorry ' for poll tax 07 dec 03 -pipe- scotland related internet links : conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories queen to set out deficit promise ' vote needed ' on welsh assembly city awaits new uk banking laws products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 36,629 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- politics -pipe- tory leader defends beliefs list home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 11:19 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version tory leader defends beliefs list mr howard said the beliefs had propelled him into politics conservative leader michael howard has told the bbc why he published his list of core political beliefs .
he said he wanted to dispel the idea politicians were obsessed with being negative about their opponents .
mr howard said many people were uncertain about the difference between the parties .
and he said his beliefs were " entirely in tune with conservative principles and with what most of the british people want " .
personal statement speaking on bbc radio 4 's today programme , mr howard denied copying those 15 " beliefs " from a 1941 personal declaration by john d rockefeller .
the guardian and the mirror had claimed the conservative leader stole his statement published in friday 's times from a personal declaration by the american philanthropist .
the daily telegraph meanwhile had criticised mr howard 's grammar in the statement which will now be sent to 100,000 tory party members .
the conservative leader said : " i am afraid the responsibility for what we put out yesterday , grammatical errors and all , is entirely mine . "
among the " beliefs " he cited were that it was natural for people to want wealth , health and happiness , that people need protecting from bureaucracy and that parents want a better education for their children than the one they had .
on today mr howard was asked to explain his statement that one person 's ignorance was not caused by another 's education .
mr howard replied : " we should not be worried by the fact that as people move towards higher standards this will not happen at the same pace everywhere and for everyone . "
tuition fees he also said he had " grave reservations " about university tuition fees .
" i believe they would deter people from less well off families from going to university " .
he said his party was reviewing its stance on the subject and would put the proposals to the public in a manifesto .
mr howard was also asked about today 's listeners ' poll which asked people to vote for ideas for new legislation .
the poll results suggested many would like to see legislation giving householders greater rights to defend themselves against intruders .
mr howard said : " i think there is a widespread view that the present law is unsatisfactory and that it should be looked at to see to what extent there is scope for review here . "
deputy prime minister john prescott said mr howard should be judged by his record and not his dreams .
e-mail this to a friend printable version watch and listen the bbc 's reeta chakrabarti " michael howard said he wanted to do something more positive than just attacking labour " see also : tory leader 's ' i believe ' pledge 02 jan 04 -pipe- politics howard attacks whitehall red tape 17 dec 03 -pipe- politics michael howard 's new year message 02 dec 03 -pipe- politics howard ' sorry ' for poll tax 07 dec 03 -pipe- scotland related internet links : conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories prison ' not linked ' to crime drop whitehall ' supported guantanamo ' government wins vat commons votes products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 46,629 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- politics -pipe- tory leader defends beliefs list bbc news / politics graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 11:19 gmt tory leader defends beliefs list conservative leader michael howard has told the bbc why he published his list of core political beliefs .
he said he wanted to dispel the idea politicians were obsessed with being negative about their opponents .
mr howard said many people were uncertain about the difference between the parties .
and he said his beliefs were " entirely in tune with conservative principles and with what most of the british people want " .
personal statement speaking on bbc radio 4 's today programme , mr howard denied copying those 15 " beliefs " from a 1941 personal declaration by john d rockefeller .
the guardian and the mirror had claimed the conservative leader stole his statement published in friday 's times from a personal declaration by the american philanthropist .
the daily telegraph meanwhile had criticised mr howard 's grammar in the statement which will now be sent to 100,000 tory party members .
the conservative leader said : " i am afraid the responsibility for what we put out yesterday , grammatical errors and all , is entirely mine " .
among the " beliefs " he cited were that it was natural for people to want wealth , health and happiness , that people need protecting from bureaucracy and that parents want a better education for their children than the one they had .
on today mr howard was asked to explain his statement that one person 's ignorance was not caused by another 's education .
mr howard replied : " we should not be worried by the fact that as people move towards higher standards this will not happen at the same pace everywhere and for everyone . "
tuition fees he also said he had " grave reservations " about university tuition fees .
" i believe they would deter people from less well off families from going to university " .
he said his party was reviewing its stance on the subject and would put the proposals to the public in a manifesto .
mr howard was also asked about today 's listeners ' poll which asked people to vote for ideas for new legislation .
the poll results suggested many would like to see legislation giving householders greater rights to defend themselves against intruders .
mr howard said : " i think there is a widespread view that the present law is unsatisfactory and that it should be looked at to see to what extent there is scope for review here . "
deputy prime minister john prescott said mr howard should be judged by his record and not his dreams .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : tory leader 's ' i believe ' pledge -lrb- 02 jan 04 -pipe- politics -rrb- howard attacks whitehall red tape -lrb- 17 dec 03 -pipe- politics -rrb- michael howard 's new year message -lrb- 02 dec 03 -pipe- politics -rrb- howard ' sorry ' for poll tax -lrb- 07 dec 03 -pipe- scotland -rrb- related internet links : conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- bishop in fresh dungavel appeal home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 11:36 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version bishop in fresh dungavel appeal the centre was a prison before housing asylum seekers a catholic bishop has renewed his appeal against the detention of the children of asylum seekers in dungavel detention centre .
bishop john mone said that holding children in prison-like conditions " shamed the people of this country " .
the bishop of paisley is also president of the catholic church 's justice and peace commission .
he said he wanted home secretary david blunkett to find more humane ways of dealing with families .
' heartless solution ' mr blunkett has come under fierce criticism for the detention of refugees and their children at the facility .
the home office insist the families must be kept in secure accommodation to stop them absconding before their cases are heard .
but bishop mone spoke out again over the treatment of children held in the south lanarkshire centre as he delivered his message for the scottish day of prayer and peace .
" during the last year i publicly criticised the so-called family unit in dungavel prison and detention of children in dungavel prison , " he said .
" while we recognise that people may differ on the general policy for asylum seekers in our country , we have to say that , as regards children , this heartless solution shames the people of this country .
" i believe that what is happening at dungavel is contrary to international law as expressed in the united nations declaration on the rights of the child and in the european convention on human rights . "
dungavel is set to expand despite calls for its closure the recent case of the kurdish ay family highlighted the plight of children held at the facility .
earlier this year bishop mone handed over to the home secretary a 21,089-signature petition against the detention of families with young children at the former jail .
he added : " i take this opportunity of thanking the thousands of people who signed the petition to release the children and give them back their freedom and their childhood .
" your signature did count because it gave a voice to these voiceless children .
" the home secretary was impressed by this volume of protest but unfortunately chose not to listen . "
only last month the home office announced that planning permission had been granted to add 44 beds to the centre , which would boost its capacity by a quarter .
but it said these would be only be used to house adult males and no final decision had been reached .
the centre at strathaven currently holds 150 men , women and children but the extension will add another block and bring the capacity to almost 200 .
the scottish socialist party said dungavel - " scotland 's guantanamo bay " - should be shut , while the snp said labour was " deeply embarrassed " by its asylum policy .
e-mail this to a friend printable version see also : ' bnp ' warning over asylum policy 24 dec 03 -pipe- scotland dungavel to house more immigrants 23 dec 03 -pipe- scotland home office rejects dungavel appeal 16 dec 03 -pipe- scotland child detention centre plea 10 dec 03 -pipe- scotland msps seek dungavel legal advice 01 oct 03 -pipe- scotland executive ' failed ' ay family 07 aug 03 -pipe- scotland related internet links : catholic church in scotland home office scottish executive eis the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories scots unemployment rate increases police name three road crash dead man tried to kill disabled wife products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmxi most popular now -pipe- 48,800 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- bishop in fresh dungavel appeal home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : saturday , 3 january , 2004 , 11:36 gmt e-mail this to a friend printable version bishop in fresh dungavel appeal the centre was a prison before housing asylum seekers a catholic bishop has renewed his appeal against the detention of the children of asylum seekers in dungavel detention centre .
bishop john mone said that holding children in prison-like conditions " shamed the people of this country " .
the bishop of paisley is also president of the catholic church 's justice and peace commission .
he said he wanted home secretary david blunkett to find more humane ways of dealing with families .
' heartless solution ' mr blunkett has come under fierce criticism for the detention of refugees and their children at the facility .
the home office insist the families must be kept in secure accommodation to stop them absconding before their cases are heard .
but bishop mone spoke out again over the treatment of children held in the south lanarkshire centre as he delivered his message for the scottish day of prayer and peace .
" during the last year i publicly criticised the so-called family unit in dungavel prison and detention of children in dungavel prison , " he said .
" while we recognise that people may differ on the general policy for asylum seekers in our country , we have to say that , as regards children , this heartless solution shames the people of this country .
" i believe that what is happening at dungavel is contrary to international law as expressed in the united nations declaration on the rights of the child and in the european convention on human rights . "
dungavel is set to expand despite calls for its closure the recent case of the kurdish ay family highlighted the plight of children held at the facility .
earlier this year bishop mone handed over to the home secretary a 21,089-signature petition against the detention of families with young children at the former jail .
he added : " i take this opportunity of thanking the thousands of people who signed the petition to release the children and give them back their freedom and their childhood .
" your signature did count because it gave a voice to these voiceless children .
" the home secretary was impressed by this volume of protest but unfortunately chose not to listen . "
only last month the home office announced that planning permission had been granted to add 44 beds to the centre , which would boost its capacity by a quarter .
but it said these would be only be used to house adult males and no final decision had been reached .
the centre at strathaven currently holds 150 men , women and children but the extension will add another block and bring the capacity to almost 200 .
the scottish socialist party said dungavel - " scotland 's guantanamo bay " - should be shut , while the snp said labour was " deeply embarrassed " by its asylum policy .
e-mail this to a friend printable version see also : ' bnp ' warning over asylum policy 24 dec 03 -pipe- scotland dungavel to house more immigrants 23 dec 03 -pipe- scotland home office rejects dungavel appeal 16 dec 03 -pipe- scotland child detention centre plea 10 dec 03 -pipe- scotland msps seek dungavel legal advice 01 oct 03 -pipe- scotland executive ' failed ' ay family 07 aug 03 -pipe- scotland related internet links : catholic church in scotland home office scottish executive eis the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories more snow shuts schools and roads new power line approval expected big chill to last two more weeks products and services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia uk -pipe- business -pipe- entertainment -pipe- science / nature -pipe- technology -pipe- health have your say -pipe- in pictures -pipe- week at a glance -pipe- country profiles -pipe- in depth -pipe- programmes bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 39,000 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
